Strategy Simulations. The tension rises, as you carefully study your next move...on that threatens your very existence! Will you finally capture your opponents playing piece or be forced to sacrifice the entire match? Plot intricate strategies, block opponents moves and above all, never lose your objective! Play the challenging strategy games that demand a cool head and a hot plan of attack! Adventure Games. Discover new and uncharted territories; go where no human has dared to go! Encounter demented creatures, strange worlds and life threatening situations...will the passageway lead to the cache of jewels or the castle dungeon? Keep your senses alert and step cautiously or this journey may be your last! Games Included:      Mind Master: Attempt to guess the secret codes in this puzzle game. Options allow for any combination of human and computer players.     Rubies Cube : A computerized version of the popular puzzle Rubix Cube; players twist and turn a 3x3x3 cube to attempt to make each of the six faces of the cube a uniform color.     Concentration: A memory game where two players compete by attempting to find matching cards in a deck. Players take turns picking two cards from the deck; if they match, a point is earned and they get to pick 2 more cards. The first player to earn 14 points wins.     Simple Simon: A computerized version of the memory game; the computer will quickly display a series of numbers on the screen. Players need to type in the same numbers in the same sequence. Each time a correct response is given, the game proceeds to the next round with more numbers and a quicker pace.     Wagons West: A strategy/adventure game simulating a journey on the Oregon Trail in 1847. Players need to safely complete the 2040 mile journey by carefully buying supplies, hunting for food, defending from attacks, and more.     Galactic Empires: A strategy game where multiple players attempt to control the most worlds in the galaxy by games end.     Stoneville Manor: An adventure game where players need to search for and open the safe of the late Mr. Stone in order to inherit his entire estate.     Star Trader: A strategy game where players need to invest in trading companies in order to control the galaxy.