Fantasyland 2041 A.D. is a fantasy themed RPG. It is the year 2041 AD, and the programmers Patty and John Bell of Crystalware have used the newest advances in robotics and terraforming to create in the Australian Outback six lands filled with rewards and dangers to challenge all those who wish to be adventurers. They created the great Hall of Heroes, which acts as a tourist attraction to all those who wish to learn more about this Fantasyland, but also as a starting for those who wish to challenge these six lands. Played from a top-down perspective, the player's goal is to explore and survive the jungle-themed Congoland, Middle Eastern-themed Arabia, Medieval England, a sea voyage across the Mediterranean, an Underwater voyage aboard the submarine Tari, and finally delve into the Underworld itself. There, they must confront the Prince of Darkness, and rescue the missing Guinevere or Lancelot (depending on the player's tastes). Each zone has a guardian whom must be defeated before the player can advance to the next area.  The player starts in the Hall of Heroes, where they must recruit warriors, purchase supplies, weapons, and armor. After leaving the Hall, they can not return. Treasure chests are found throughout the wilderness, containing a variety of goods. The player will randomly be interrupted by combat through their explorations in the wilderness. Sometimes, enemies if greeted nicely, will join the player. Combat is determined by comparing the player and enemy's offensive and defensive powers. Each round the player can attack or flee. If attacking, each round enemy and friendly units are lost depending on ability differences. Defeated enemies may join the player's forces. In each zone, the player's goal is to gather up troops and resources, so that they're strong enough to survive more difficult areas. While at sail in the Mediterranean, the player must carefully controls their sails, and work with the winds. While underwater, the player must carefully control their ballast and oxygen, ensuring they have sufficient air, divers, and diving suits.