From Computer Gaming World: "HORSE RACING CLASSIC: A REVIEW [In Howard Cosell's voice] -- It's a simulation. A pedagogic device without parallel in the annals of digitized sports games. An electronic derby party which fetes more equine excitement than my own loquacious platitudes and perambulations in covering the May Classic (the Kentucky Derby for the uninitiated) in my own nasal and lugubrious fashion. Thank you Howard for that nifty introduction to HORSE RACING CLASSIC. Yes, we agree with you, HRC is a good horse racing simulation, a good teaching tool, and just a darn good party game. There have been several horse race games written for the Apple (most were little more than lo-res programming exercises), but HRC stands apart.  As a simulation, HRC makes use of a horse's track record to determine the potential performance of each horse on the daily card. For example, a horse that has a record of coming from off the pace (according to the racing form provided for each race) will have a good chance of closing on the leaders in any given race. Anyone who knows how to read a racing form will feel very comfortable with HRC, as the two most recent performances of each horse in a race are given for your examination. In addition to the recent racing history of each horse and standard racing form data (weight carried, Odds, fastest time, number of starts, wins, places, and shows), HRC gives a rating to the jockey and trainer assigned to each horse. All of which adds an amazing degree of realism to the game. As a tutorial, HRC can be used to teach a novice not only how to read the racing form, but how to make intelligent choices at the betting window. When is it best to bet across the board? Is there really any logic to "Place" bet? How did I lose my money so easily? The appendix to the rulebook has a nice little discussion on understanding odds and pay-offs.  While HRC performs admirably as a simulation and tutorial on thoroughbred wagering it really shines as a party game. With HRC at a party, don't be surprised if you find a room full of otherwise normal people jumping up and down screaming for "Spectacular Bid" (or even "Spectacular Dud") to race across those last few grueling inches of the monitor for a well earned victory. As we have just hinted, you can change the name of any of the 100 horses stored on the game disk. This will not change the horses performance record (which is stored by date and race), but can provide a humorous touch to the proceedings. Each bettor is given an initial stake of $100 which he or she uses to try and win the most money. The game stores the ten highest winning totals on disk. This "Handicapper Hall Of Fame" adds an additional touch to the game, evidenced by a recent incident in which a player refused to bet on the last 4 races of the daily card because he had a $1 lead over the all-time third place total.  From one to nine bettors can buy the traditional win, place, and show tickets for any of seven horses in the four to nine races of the daily card race. Bettors can also buy tickets in any combinations such as betting a horse "across the board". This hi-res game is very well done and well worth the $36.95 price tag.