At the start of the investigation, you will find yourself on the streets of Berlin. In front of you a sweeper, of course armed with his broom. Take a good look at this character, because he will prove to be crucial in our history. However, do not try to use your charms to coax it because it is really too dirty and the dust that is released on contact with it would quickly put you in an embarrassing situation. In fact it is especially his broom that you will need. But as it is the only good that this poor guy has on Earth, he is likely to cling to it with the latest energy. So you have to find a way to appropriate it without violence (if you can say it!). For this explore the surroundings a bit. Once in possession of his broom, of course you will use it. Like any self-respecting secret agent, you have learned during your training to use very common objects as weapons. This broom is no exception to the rule and will be very useful to you as such. During your research, you will undoubtedly be led to cross the path of a policeman who goes around. Neutralize him before he starts asking you embarrassing questions. Given the importance of your mission, do not be afraid to go to the end of things and search it completely! You will find on him objects which, if they seem completely useless at first sight, will not less prove to be capital. As you wander through the city, you may have noticed the Turkish baths. And who says Turkish baths, also says naked men, which isn't that silly when you know Carlus' homosexual tendencies like you. But the porter will be uncompromising as long as you don't have a ticket. No need to attack him, he's a former boxer and the art of dodging has no secrets for him. Paradoxically, it is the antique dealer who may be of some use to you in this matter. You'll still have to solve a lot of difficulties before you can get your hands on the infamous Carlus. You will not fail to be amazed at what happens next. But that's another story! has no more secrets for him. Paradoxically, it is the antique dealer who may be of some use to you in this matter. You'll still have to solve a lot of difficulties before you can get your hands on the infamous Carlus. You will not fail to be amazed at what happens next. But that's another story! has no more secrets for him. Paradoxically, it is the antique dealer who may be of some use to you in this matter. You'll still have to solve a lot of difficulties before you can get your hands on the infamous Carlus. You will not fail to be amazed at what happens next. But that's another story!