The Desecration is a combination science fiction themed graphical adventure and arcade game for the Apple II. You are the Intergalactic Assassin. While contemplating the painful memories of a life lost during your last mission, your videophone flickers to life with a new mission. Pykron 9, a small industrialized world, lead by Dunmark Pykro, has recently begun to aggressively expand into adjacent worlds. You have been tasked to remove Dunmark Pykro as head of the corporation due to fears of some of the nearby worlds. Your fee for this task will be 10,000 galactic sovereigns. The game consists of a combination of science fiction arcade elements and graphical text adventures. During the graphical text adventure, the player inputs commands via VERB NOUN commands. In the first section, the player must sneak onto a spaceship bound for Pykron 9 by outsmarting android guards. In the first arcade sequence, the player controls a spaceship on the top of the screen, which can move left and right, and fire downwards. A number of vessels fire vertically upwards. The player must destroy two waves of alien defenders to successfully launch into space. The player can take 3 hits before they experience game over. In the second adventure section, the player must infiltrate the defenses on Pykron 9 in order to destroy Pykro's headquarters. During this section, the player must outsmart the robotic defenses, and if certain mistakes are made, the player enters combat against robotic guards during the second arcade component. In this section, the player controls a small tank which can move in 4 cardinal directions. Surrounding the player is a number of androids which fire towards the player. The player must destroy 2 waves of attackers, and has a total of 3 lives to do this. In the final section, the player must escape from the surface of Pykron 9. To do this, they once again control a small vessel that can move left and right, but this time fire upwards to defending alien vessels. After defeating 3 waves of defenders, the player can blast to safety.