The year is 4081 and the people of Mother Earth are in peril. Ramadu, the mighty and sinister ruler of the planet Neburon, a thousand light years away, is about to declare war on weaker and smaller Earth--a war which would mean total destruction, or worse, total servitude on the part of the people of Earth, to the evil Ramadu. For thousands of years the inhabitants of Neburon (a very advanced society) have watched the struggling and developing Earthlings--as one would watch animals in a zoo. The Neburites, over the years, had traveled to Earth, sometimes learning, sometimes teaching, always curious. They saw revealed to them, in the development of Earthlings, their own beginnings so many millions of years ago. But Earth was catching up to Neburon--technically, medically, scientifically, all ways, Neburon had once been extremely advanced compared to Earth but had grown comfortable and lazy. The Neburites were in a slump. They needed a stimulus. They were angry about Earth's advancement and their own inactivity. Why, if something was not done about it, Earth might very well pass Neburon in superiority in a few decades! So Ramadu had come to power. But instead of spurring his people on to new growth and productivity, and perhaps working with Earth to trade knowledge and ideas beneficial to both, he chose war. After all, Neburon was still more powerful than Earth and the Earthlings wouldn't stand a chance. The year is 1981. You are an ordinary person walking through a meadow one day, when you notice a strange looking contraption right in the middle of the meadow. You glance around you. There appears to be no one around. You look inside the contraption--there are a lot of dials and something that looks like a bucket seat. The outside of the contraption is round with a large inviting doorway. Hesitantly, you enter the contraption and sit down in the bucket seat. Gingerly, you turn a dial and suddenly reality becomes a blue as you enter the greatest adventure of your life!