Wings out of Shadow is a science fiction short story interspersed with arcade elements for the Apple II. The player takes the role of commander and second in command of a large escort vessel, who must combat the Berserker menace. These large asteroid-sized ships, the remnants of a war of mutual-annihilation between two extinct races, are bent on the destruction of all living matter. Combat occurs in a dream-like state within the subconscious, and in the player's first combat against the Berserkers' they see their adversary as a malevolent priest of their religious sect. In the first arcade segment, the player must advance towards the priest, while avoiding squares of malevolent teeth summoned along squares of the floor. When they reach the priest, a dragon appears, which incinerates the player. The player travels aboard the escort vessel Judith to protect the medical spaceship HOPE, which holds the survivors of the planet Yaty that survived destruction by a Berserker. The ship is pursued by a fleet of Berserker ships as they attempt to reach safety. The player soon finds themselves returning from combat, only to find out that they barely survived their encounter, and had to be rescued by other fighters. Not fit for fighting, the player is put back in command of navigation while their commanding officer travels to the HOPE to take over navigation there. The player had been involved in designing a fighter ship which can simulate the human subconscious, to directly combat the Berserker menace on their level. As the player takes control of the Judith, they are presented with a tactical display showing the location of nearby vessels. This strategy element allows the player to examine the condition of their remaining pilots and fighter ships. The player can enact repairs on their vessels, and move their troops to combat the trailing Berserker forces. The goal is to try to destroy as many Berserker vessels as possible before being boarded by the enemy. With the rest of the crew aboard the Judith dead, the player makes a desperate attempt to rescue the remaining colonists aboard the HOPE. The player must navigate 3 levels of a 1-st person perspective maze while avoiding Berserker drones, to recover the prototype pieces of the X-fighter. With this, the player can escape aboard the X-fighter Once safely aboard the X-fighter, the player must enter the final battle with the remaining Berserker forces, and allow the HOPE to escape to safety.