Audubon Grizzly Bears: Wildlife Adventures is a series of educational adventures for multiple systems.
Designed to teach young players about the lifecycle of grizzly bears, the dangers they face from human encroachment, and how to stay safe around an inherently dangerous creature. The software package contains 4 short adventure games, as well as guides to being safe in bear country, data on grizzly food, and grizzly habit models.
In the first adventure, On the Spot with Dr. Potts, the player takes on the role of a young camper who meets Dr. Potts after an encounter with a grizzly bear. She agrees to take you on as her assistant, and teaches you about grizzly bear research and behavior while you explore the wilderness to track bears tagged with radio collars.
In Bear Encounters, the player takes a summer job investigating reports of problems involving grizzly bears and people. A true adventure game, the player must visit the site of a grizzly attack on campers, and interview the campers. A small map of the area allows the player to investigate several buildings and staff around the area, and the player must ascertain the identity of the bear that destroyed the camp, so they can be transported to a more remote location.
In Grizzly Bear Mystery, you are a wildlife student working in your lab, when you are asked to investigate the death of a grizzly bear on the side of the road. The player must search the site of the death, as well as perform an autopsy of the bear to determine cause of the animal's death. Then, the player must interview the local population, by driving to different locations, to determine who shot and killed the grizzly, and the details surrounding their death.
In Oil Explorer, you are a young project manager at Petroleoco Oil Company drilling for oil in a place called Grizzly Prospect. You must work with local forest service employees and biologists to learn how to drill for oil on government land while minimizing damage to grizzly habitat. The player must work with maps to develop a detailed drilling plan.