Dominium , a distant solar system discovered recently, was acclimatized by settlers from the Earth. After that it grew rapidly, and war conflicts finally touched up the system. Peace was restored, and Galactic High Council decided to promulgate the Galactic Charter to prevent the recurrence of such events.
Military forces were taken out except elite security forces, generally members of galactic orders. The most prestigious of these orders, the Galactic New Round Table, assigned you a rank of Knight, and the Grand Master of the Order gave you a first mission. It will take place on Dominium. This system threatened by a belligerent neighbor has required a military observer.
Upon your arrival after long journey in hibernation box, you were met by Selena of Antioch, Regent of Dominium. She tells you that she refused the ultimatum of her neighbor Baron Kraal, who wants to conquer Dominium. So you have to rely on yourself and your resources to defeat the Baron, because your general forces are too remote to help you. Selena is grateful to your decision, and she gives you carte blanche to organize the defense of Dominium.
In the main menu you can modify a 4 digit "Stellar Code" that represents the game's difficulty settings and also acts as seed for terrain map generation - number 0 to 9 for: enemy speed and brutality, enemy industrial and military capability, your charisma (spy reports and resource donations), your units' attack inaccuracy.
You play at the same time on 7 planet maps and a single space map, that connects them all. The maps consist of hexagonal wraparound terrain grid. 
In space you move around with spacecraft (Fighter, Frigate, Cruiser, Cargo). On the planets you move around with ground vehicles (Jeep, Armor, Carrier) and may land your spacecraft on any free spot. A factory can produce new units and mine resources. At cities you can hire new crewmen for gold.
The game is played in realtime while all units move stepwise depending on their individual engine speed. Each movement step consumes fuel/energy.
Your mission is to find, conquer and hold 5 out of 7 fortresses, one on each planet, while your opponent is trying the same.
Starting with a factory, you should build units to uncover neighboring lands covered by Fog of War. Finding resources, such as gold mines and energy deposits, you should collect them with a factory and build more units.
Each unit is defined by 8 parameters: Speed, Range, Fire, Shield, Tank, Radar, Capacity, and Crew. The values of parameters, which may be increased and decreased before production, define the cost of a unit. Adviser Selena will contact you during gameplay and inform you on random planetary events out of your sight.
The game may be played by a single player or by two players via serial cable. For two player mode you can additionally enable two computer opponents.