Escape from Ragor is a fantasy role playing game, a typical dungeon crawler with tile-based movement and real-time combat. You're thrown into the labyrinthine dungeons of Castle Ragor and must now get out, overcoming the traps and obstacles set by its nefarious master, Megrim. Explore the walls of Ragor and find an exit. That will not be easy as your jailer tries to confuse and mislead you, and the dungeons are full of Megrim's minions and dangerous monsters.The game is controlled entirely with the mouse, which is used to interact with the environment, manipulate inventory items and move the character around by clicking the navigational arrows on the interface. You can use items like spells, healing potions and poisons in fights with the enemies. Combat flows in real time and the outcome of any encounter ultimately depends on how fast you click the attack button, located in the centre of the navigational arrows. The simple combat system automatically uses an offensive magic spell if one is selected and there is enough mana, and otherwise switches to conventional weapons if such are available and readied (held in the player character's hands).Exploration is much simplified thanks to the built-in automap, which also highlights fake walls and switches for the player's convenience. If a tile currently occupied by the player contains any items that can be picked, an eye icon will pop up on the interface, with the items then shown in a separate small window. Some tiles have a red banner with a golden question mark, which when activated will display messages, often coming from Megrim, the main antagonist of the game, and sometimes hints.Unlike many dungeon crawlers of this type, there is no party but only one player character, and no character generation. The only choice given to the player is that of the protagonist's sex, which does not affect starting stats. Experience is gained by the usual means of killing monsters.Escape from Ragor has a hunger/thirst system, with hunger and thirst levels displayed on the character screen. These can be replenished by using food and drink found in the dungeon. You get a flask of water at the start, which may be later refilled in fountains that are found in some areas of the dungeon.