The id Anthology is a collection of all the games id Software made up to Quake. It also contains collectables, such as a poster, comic, T-shirt, and a model cyberdemon. This compilation has 19 games on 4 CDs.
The first CD has the games id Software made from 1991 to 1993: this includes all the Commander Keen games, both Wolfenstein games, and really early games such as Dangerous Dave and Slordax. Commander Keen: Aliens Ate my Babysitter is only the CGA version.
The second CD titled Doom has The Ultimate Doom, Doom II, Master Levels, and Final Doom. Master Levels does not include Maximum Doom on the Doom CD, however it does on the Mac CD. All the Doom games apart from Master Levels have both the DOS and DOOM95 versions of v1.9 (the latest). Master Levels comes with a DOS launcher doomit v9.5c where the player may load the .wad files from. The Doom CD also has a copy of DirectX 4, Dwango95, and xband.
The third Quake CD has Quake on it with the audio CD music.
The fourth Mac CD has Mac versions of Wolfenstein 3D, The Ultimate Doom, Doom II, and Final Doom.
Also included in compilation is the Book of id : a book that is a part of the 4 CD case and has a story about id Software and starts off "I've run out of ammo. Nothing much left between me and Them but this fire door..." Also included is a poster of someone screaming against a length of film, a phone card with a picture of the Doom II boss on it, two dog tags with the id logo on one and the id Anthology logo on the other, a led cyberdemon miniature (unpainted, no paint included), a black t-shirt with the id Anthology logo on it, and a Doom comic book. The game manuals are on the CDs and are viewed with omoplay.
Games included

CD 1: Vintage

Catacomb 3-D
Commander Keen: Invasion of the Vorticons
Commander Keen: Goodbye Galaxy
Commander Keen: Aliens Ate My Babysitter!
Commander Keen: Keen Dreams
Dangerous Dave
Hover Tank 3D
Rescue Rover
Rescue Rover 2
Shadow Knights
Slordax: The Unknown Enemy
The Catacomb
Wolfenstein 3D
Spear of Destiny

CD 2: DOOM

The Ultimate Doom
Doom II
Master Levels for Doom II
Final Doom

CD 3: Quake

Quake

CD 4: Mac

Wolfenstein 3D
The Ultimate Doom
Doom II
Final Doom