This is an early demo/prototype of Jurassic War. It is based on the same premise of commanding tribes of prehistoric humans in a fantasy setting where they coexist with dinosaurs, with Warcraft -like top-down view and interface controls. However, this version runs in low-resolution VGA 320x200 mode, and the in-game world has a hand-drawn look to it as opposed to the pre-rendered sprites of the final release (static menu screens are still pre-rendered).Additionally, the playing mechanics in this version are even more leaning towards RPG elements than in the final release of Jurassic War : not only units gain experience and level up, the entire management of the player's settlement is completely non-typical for Warcraft style game. There is no direct control of buildings, instead, each unit has to individually enter a specific building to deposit resources or buy items, or even recruit a new tribe member.There is only one resource, food, which is gathered by hunting wildlife that constantly spawns in the woods. Food is then collected by the player's tribesmen and can be deposited in the storehouses to add to the settlement's supply, or used by each unit to purchase weapons, shields and other items, or hire/train new units. Tribesmen can be equipped with a variety of weapons including clubs, maces, knives, swords, spears and even crossbows, with more powerful items being more expensive. Additionally, experience gained by a unit eventually translates into higher stats and even different appearance. Slain enemies from opposing tribes will drop items that may be used to equip the player's units, or sold in the weapons shop.To augment "conventional" weapons, the tribes can use magic, with some being more apt at this than the others. Spells are purchased similar to weapons, and are used in the same way as in Warcraft games: the caster has a reserve of magical energy that is used up when casting spells, and then slowly recovers. The difference here is that any tribesman can become a spellcaster.Insofar the demo scenario goes, the objective is to capture the enemy tribes' centre by getting your tribesmen near it.