In Market Mogul you take the role of Beryl Flinch, company clerk of MegaCorp, headed by the dying president Ebenezer Grimsby, with a job of attempting to save the corporation from a takeover attempt by the executive vice president, Riggs Greedman, Grimsby's rival. From a hidden room filled with direct stock exchange terminals and brokerage house hotlines, and only a starting amount of $25,000, it is your goal to stop Greedman's plans of holding a controlling interest in MegaCorp's 10 subsidiaries, and prevent him from becoming Chairman of the Board.
This turn-based text game displays a list of the different stocks and commodities, along with the current market price, the last change in price, number of shares held, market value of those shares, and total outstanding loans on that stock.
Each cycle, players have the choice of buying and selling your chosen amounts of each stock ('OilCo', 'PowerCo', 'FoodCo', 'ChemCo', etc) and commodities (Wheat, Coffee, Beef, and Gold), along with the option of borrowing against them, where the limit is based on the player's net worth.
After the player is finished setting up their buys/sells and confirming to proceed to the next cycle, the market will update and show the change in each item, along with giving an option to see a trending bar chart of the last 20 market prices for a stock.
Occasionally, there will be 'World event' or market trend that a stock ticker displays (for example: "CABLECO LOSE $5M COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT SUIT", or "CHEMCO DEVELOPS STRONG, LIGHTWEIGHT PLASTIC AS STEEL SUBSTITUTE"), and which majorly affects the trend of a specific stock, while some other related stocks may also be slightly affected. Rarely there will also be hints and leaks about upcoming future market trends, true or not.
Once the player holds 1,000 shares of each company, and has a net worth of at least $100,000 for 3 consecutive market updates, the player becomes president of that subsidiary, and starts receiving a 2% salary each cycle for stock held in that company ... but if a stock ever becomes worthless, the player is fired.
The end goal of the game is to become president of all 10 stock companies, and also have a net worth of $250,000, after which the player is elected Chairman of the Board.