Blasternaut, Galactic Commander, and Spot, are out searching space for The Lost City in their violet magenta cruiser. Galactic Commander feels this mission so important that she has left her normal duties at the base and joined the crew. Blasternaut and spot, however, are less than thrilled with the seemingly fruitless search.
Suddenly, Doctor Minus, a deep voiced robot with an obsession for subtraction, is behind them and shoots their ship down onto a barren planet where to their, if not the player's, surprise they find The Lost City. Despite this happy coincidence Doctor Minus is preparing an bombardment force and sending his "negatron" minions to the planet to make sure the Blaster crew doesn't get away. Galactic Commander knows more than she is letting on and is convinced that if they can restore power to buildings of the city they'll have an edge...
The game includes 4 levels, all involving math or logic problems to solve. Which you have to complete to restore the power within each building (level).
These levels include:

Maze Craze : Here the player will control the Math Blaster crew to collect all the numbers and operations to make a complete equation and clear the area. The player has to switch between the characters to open certain doors, or perform certain actions; for example, only Galactic Commander is tall and strong enough to pull ceiling chains.
Creature Creator : The player will start with one creature composed of a number of interchangeable parts in a bow arrows will then lead to a contiguous box the number of arrows indicates how many parts need to change. The player will then need to make more changes for the next box until there are no more, this will be the final mutation.
Position Splash : Negatrons, formless yellow critters, carrying numbers will enter from the top of the screen an equation with a missing number will be at the bottom. However not all the negatrons are carrying the right number. So those without the correct number must be eliminated. The player controls one of the three crew members and can run left and right while throwing some sort of water grenade. Negatrons that have been hit will wander the stage and throw poisoned blobs at the active crew member, should he be hit another will take his place. This area ends when five problems have been completed, or answered incorrectly, or if all three crew members are hit.
Number Hunt : Here the player needs to find equations that equal a number between a range given at the top of the screen. Naturally these equations are on giant slabs all over the screen. A crew member will have to jump to and select the correct ones. Player beware! Many of the blocks can move back into the wall from which they jut sending the crew member out of commission. This area is over when five correct answers or five incorrect answers are selected, or all the crew members drop.

Upon completion players will be treated to a detailed view of the true powers of the city, and as with many edutainment titles, a print out certificate with the players score.