In this simulation of the famous TV game show, the questions are asked, and players must find the answers, which are hidden in a letter grid. Players win points by finding the answers before their opponents do. The first player to earn 1000 points is the winner, and goes on to play in the Championship Round.Rules of this computer edition are:In Main Game Round One, a question is asked and a gameboard appears. Players must buzz in once they have located the correct answer on the gameboard. Players buzz in by pressing certain keys on keyboard.In Main Game Round Two, a new gameboard appears and the point values are doubled. Round Two is played the same as Round One.To locate an answer on the gameboard each player should:a. Use arrow keys to move the pointer up or down to the correct row and press the Space Bar to confirm;b. Use arrow keys to move the cursor across the columns to the first letter of the answer word and press the Space Bar to confirm.c. Use arrow keys to move the cursor across the word and press the Space Bar on the last letter.d. Correct any mistake and reset the row or column, pressing Backspace. This resets the cursor to the top left position on the grid.The winner of the 1000 points in the Main Game Rounds plays the computer in a Championship Round.A human player may be substituted for the computer if you wish.A category is announced, and a gameboard appears with six hidden answers.The first player to find one of the answers buzzes in and locates it. That player then has 20 seconds to locate the other five words.If the player is successful, he/she wins the amount that the board is worth. (The first round is worth $200, the second round is worth $300, all the way up to the fifth round which is worth $600.)If the player who buzzed in first cannot find all the answers in time, the other player will be given a chance to find the remaining words and win the money.If the second player also cannot find the answers, then the first player wins the money.Play continues until one player wins $1000.The winner of the Championship Round goes on to play the Solo Round.Solo Round1. In the Solo Round, a new gameboard appears, and the player is given 60 seconds to locate the answers to 10 questions. If the player succeeds, he/she wins $5000.The player may pass any question by pressing the "P" key and come back to it after the tenth question.If a player does not find all 10 answers, he/she earns $100 for each correct answer.The game is available to 1-2 players. Hall of Fame stores all the most successful players.