Professional Yamb is a one or two player, mouse controlled dice game
At first glance Yamb seems very similar to Yahtzee but there are major differences in the way the game is scored.
The player rolls six dice and has three rolls with which to get a favourable score on five of them. After each roll they can select the dice they wish to keep and reroll the remainder. The score area is divided into three areas, Upper, Middle and Lower;* The Upper section: As with Yahtzee this is the section where the player scores for the most ones, twos, threes fours fives and sixes they can get in a roll. If a player scores sixty or above in this section then they are awarded an additional thirty points

The Middle section. This consists of two entries, Maximum and Minimum. The player enters scores in each of these boxes and is scores the difference between the two multiplied by the number of ones scored in the Upper section
The Lower section. This is the poker dice section and the player enters scores for;
Kenta, also known as a straight, which is five consecutive dice
Full, aka Full House, which is three of one number and two of another for which the player scores the sum of their dice plus thirty bonus poits. This cannot be five identical dice
Kare, aka Poker. This four of a kind and the player scores the sum of their dice plus forty bonus points
Yamb which is five identical dice which scores the player the sum of their dice plus fifty points

Unlike Yahtzee where the player can enter their score in any available cell on the score-sheet Yamb is played in an ordered way

The first pass through the score-sheet starts in the upper section with the player trying to roll as many ones as possible, then as many number twos as possible concluding in an attempt to roll a yamb.

The second pass is more like Yahtzee and the player can put their score anywhere in the column

The third pass is the reverse of the first in that the player starts by trying to roll a yamb and finishes by trying to roll as many ones as possible

The final pass is the Nomination round. Here the player rolls the six dice and then nominates the sequence they are going to try and achieve. Whether they are successful or not they must enter their score in the nominated cell on the score-sheet.
In this version of the game failure to nominate a cell after the first roll ends the game by locking the score-sheet