Your father, the loved Duke of Allada was last night murdered by Orcish hordes and the same Orcs have come again to invade your city. Now is the time to avenge your father and keep well the title Duke of Allada. Recruit an army and prepare for the upcoming onslaught! The future and fate of Allada and its role in Aragon now rests in your hands!Sword of Aragon is a turned-based fantasy strategy game where the player rules a small town called Allada in the Northwestern part of the land known as Aragon. Most of the political map is yet undiscovered and you have to maintain a strong economy and military force to venture forth. The storyline revolves around duties as the Duke of Allada, exploring the uncharted areas of Aragon and uncovering its mysteries, conquering neighboring cities, as well as the political intrigues surrounding the city-states of Aragon.In Sword of Aragon, the player may choose one of the five different character classes for the player's leading hero, each with different bonuses to the player's troops and abilities: Warrior, Knight, Ranger, Priest, or Mage. Different selection of character class does not affect the storyline.Gameplay of Sword of Aragon consists of three major categories:City and Resource Development and ManagementWith Allada as the first city the player controls (though later in the game the player may acquire many other cities in the land of Aragon), the first rule of business is developing the town and creating a steady economy. Military development and maintenance costs money and unless those Orcs come again with more friends, you had better maintain a decent military garrison. The only way to get money is to tax the revenues of a controlled city. These revenues come from five different sectors: farming, lumber, mining, commerce, and manufacturing. The stronger the sector, the higher the tax income. The player can do this by investing money to selected sectors which strengthens economy (and city happiness) as well as promoting more people to come to a player controlled city and well as a steady stable birthrate (more people means more taxes).Besides developing resources, the player can also invest in structures and fortifications. Aragon is fantasy world filled with mystery and monsters, a town without walls is inviting inevitable disaster from marauding enemies. Structures and fortification investment guarantee thick walls and battlements for your troops to defend themselves in the event of an attack. Structures also have an additional use of storing surplus food for those harsh winter days.The player can also recruit military units and heroes at cities. Military units and heroes may only be recruited providing the player has the money as well as available recruits at the selected city. Recruits increase through time although the player may also conscript citizens, however it will have a negative effect to city happiness.Military Development and CombatThe player starts the game preparing for combat. Thus, recruiting an army is the first priority in the game. There are different types of military units as wells as heroes to recruit from: infantry, cavalry, bowmen, and mounted bowmen. The more experience troops obtain (either from training or combat) the stronger they become as well as able to equip more various selections of armor and weapons. Heroes can be recruited to up to 20 units (the player's hero included). Heroes, though weak at the beginning of the game, provide backup combat bonuses for your troops (especially warrior, knights, and rangers) as well as devastating offense magic and beneficial support magic (rangers, priests, and mages).The combat screen generally consists of the combat terrain and military units: The hero and main forces, the opponents’ main forces, as well as the allies of either side (when applicable). There is no time limit on combat - it ends when either side is annihilated or withdraws from battle.Exploring and Random EventsAt the start of the game, the player may view Allada and its surroundings, particularly the Northern areas. The southern and eastern maps remain unexplored. Exploring will uncover set and random events which will progress the overall story.