Shareware Simulation Games is the sixth of seven shareware CDs in Aztech's Home Entertainment series. It is a compilation of DOS games most of which can, very loosely, be described as simulations.
The games in this compilation are all shareware, freeware or demonstration games. They are accessed via 'QuikMenu' a shareware menu system which itself frequently reminds the user that it requires registration. Some of the games will run directly from the CD while others, denoted by white entries on the menu, must be copied to the player's hard drive.
It's not unusual in compilations like this for the publisher to get the name wrong and there are several errors in this product which is why the following list shows two names for some entries. Each game can be selected via the mouse or by pressing a letter of number key, the order they appear in the list below is the order of the keys on the menu so 'A' selects F117, 'B' selects Monopoly and so on.
The games in this compilation are:* F-117A Nighthawk Stealth Fighter 2.0 called just F117 in the menu.

TEGL Monopoly called just Monopoly
War-8}! renamed Lob Wars in the menu
Paper Airplanes : This is not a game, it prints the design for a paper dart on a sheet of paper complete with the markings of the player's choice
Patriot Command
Caddiehack called Caddy Shack in the menu
Crime Lab: Case Of The Missing Masterpiece shortened to 'Crime Lab'.
Corncob 3D
Dragcity U.S.A. retitled Dragster City in the menu
Family Feud
Southern Ontario Area Airports a scenery add-on for Microsoft Flight Simulator 4.0
Bulls and Bears by Ronald L. Crabb
Gravity Simulation 2.0 : This is not a game, it is software designed to simulate orbits of planets and to show how their orbits affect one another.
Gravity Wars by Sohrab Ismail-Beigi
Jumpjet
Movies To Go : This is not a game, it is a movie database.
Pool Shark
Pachisi by George Leotti and called, would you believe it, Parcheesi in the menu.
Scorched Earth (v1.2) by Wendell Hicken called Scorch 2 here
Tree Masacre by Mark Botta called Skiing in the menu
Sorry! by Joe Glockner
Tamper
VGAWHEEL by Russell R. Mueller and renamed 'VGA Wheel of Fortune' in the menu
The World Name Game by Robert L. Lloyd and called 'World Names' here
Wild Pitch!
Digital League Baseball shortened to Digital Baseball
Pro Football Edge: A betting aid that uses statistics to predict NFL Spread Winners and Over/Unders
Green
Wall Street Raider (v4.0)
Power Putt Golf!
Soccer by Dmitri Dolgov
Battle Of Gettysburg by Charles Dollins