The Lord of Lightning is a freeware first-person shooter game that puts the player in control of no other than Zeus, the Olympic god himself, referred to as the Lord of Lightning by the game. After visiting the mortal realm to watch over Hercules' feats - or rather, shenanigans, as the game's back-story implies in a rather unsubtle manner, - Zeus is about to ascend back to Mount Olympus, but finds the Beam Gate that leads there barred. Worse still, there are hordes of undead mummies sent out to kill Zeus by the Egyptian gods, knowing that while on Earth, the Olympians' immortality is temporarily relinquished. Now the Lord of Lightning must fight through these enemies and find the way back to Olympus.The Lord of Lightning was created with the ACKNEX 3D GameStudio development suite and features level architecture comparable to that of Build engine games, which is to say a notch or two up compared to Doom. The extra features include underwater areas, destructible decorations, walkways above the floor of the level, and even intricate pseudo-3D objects like a spiral staircase. However, even with these enhancements the level layout is not as complex as in most Build engine games, and is more reminiscent of many early 90s Doom user maps.Combat is straightforward: the player's attack - which does not look like a lightning at all - is a fireball that flies in a straight line, without any auto-aiming that could be expected in this type of first-person shooter. Each attack costs a small amount of mana, which needs to be replenished. For this, the game employs a simple inventory system: when the player picks up an item (typically a bottle or a jar with health/mana), it is not used up immediately but gets stored in one of eight inventory slots instead, which are split equally between health and mana items. There is only one enemy type, the mummies which also have a ranged attack, but it appears as a green orb. The player's fireball can destroy enemy projectiles in mid-flight, providing some protection and a certain tactical element to the fights.