Tommy's Turkeys is a single player shooting game.The game contains eight similar mini games in which the the player controls a gun that can be moved left / right across the bottom of the screen. It can also be moved up and down the screen to a very limited extent. The objective in all the games is to shoot turkeys as they descend from the top of the screen to the bottom.The eight sub-games available are :Turkey Runs : There are ten lanes running horizontally across the screen and turkeys run left / right within these lanes. When a turkey has completed one pass across the screen it will descend to the lane below and cross back. Points are scored for every turkey shot and 100 points are lost for every turkey that completes a successful pass on the lowest run (number ten)Mad Turkeys : The turkeys descend randomly from the top of the screen and if one manages to land on the gun the game is overTurkey Invaders : Aliens have trained the turkeys to fly in formation and shoot back. Actually the turkeys join together to form a solid 'bar' and the player shoots holes in the formation. On the lower levels of difficulty they don't shoot back very much.Turkey Toro : Here the game is played against a lone turkey that moves very fast back and forth across the screen descending as it does so. At some point in its travels it dives towards the gun, usually at a slight angle that makes hitting it that bit harder.Turkey Waves : This is a mass attack by the turkeys. There are more of them on-screen than can possibly be shot. The player must shoot as many as possible while avoiding any contact with the ones that get to the bottom of the screenInvisible Turkeys : The same as Turkey Waves, above, only most of the turkeys are invisible most of the timeTurkey Torpedoes : This game is the same as Turkey Runs, above, but here the turkeys "throw the only natural offensive weapons they have at you". These weapons look like brown bricks, they've got to mean eggs haven't they?Turkey Corral : Another Turkey Runs variant but here the turkeys have guns which they shoot randomly downwards. As with Turkey Invaders there's not much shooting back on the lower levels of difficulty.The player can select from nine levels of difficulty on each game and on most the player can select how long they want the game to last. The game keeps a separate hi-score table for each sub game.