With "Cornelsen Trainer", students have access to NDS titles for the first time, which are completely curriculum-based and specifically refer to core school subjects - this is a novelty on the console market. In addition, there is the greatest need for tutoring nationwide in the subjects of English and mathematics, and Cornelsen, as the content provider, stands for quality and reliability. Another guarantee of success: According to the study, children and young people are curious about learning programs for game consoles and would like to try them out
For today's generation of parents of school-age children, one thing counts above all: They want their children to get to the learning goal quickly and directly and to experience noticeable learning success. With these NDS titles, Cornelsen is now combining the successful console with highly efficient learning software. All tasks are based on the framework plans and the Cornelsen textbooks that have been introduced at German schools. This also ensures a suitable overlap for all federal states. The console is widely used for play purposes - and is now also an alternative when it comes to learning, both in school and in private life: the students can perform their daily exercises in a targeted manner. Last but not least, the Cornelsen training helps to prepare for learning objective controls.Great importance is also attached to the visually appealing design; variable forms of exercise are available, for example single and multiple choice exercises, drag & drop exercises or assignments. The exercise forms also come with animations - and thus position the Cornelsen titles as consistent learning programs without frills. Graphics and diagrams are used in many places, the navigation is intuitive and informative evaluation tools clearly display the learning successes. The learners have the opportunity to compile tests themselves; If desired, the program can also propose tests to improve learning and select tasks from areas that the students mastered below average.For example single and multiple choice tasks, drag & drop exercises or assignments. The exercise forms also come with animations - and thus position the Cornelsen titles as consistent learning programs without frills. Graphics and diagrams are used in many places, the navigation is intuitive and informative evaluation tools clearly display the learning successes. The learners have the opportunity to compile tests themselves; If desired, the program can also propose tests to improve learning and select tasks from areas that the students mastered below average.For example single and multiple choice tasks, drag & drop exercises or assignments. The exercise forms also come with animations - and thus position the Cornelsen titles as consistent learning programs without frills. Graphics and diagrams are used in many places, the navigation is intuitive and informative evaluation tools clearly display the learning successes. The learners have the opportunity to compile tests themselves; If desired, the program can also propose tests to improve learning and select tasks from areas that the students mastered below average.The exercise forms also come with animations - and thus position the Cornelsen titles as consistent learning programs without frills. Graphics and diagrams are used in many places, the navigation is intuitive and informative evaluation tools clearly display the learning successes. The learners have the opportunity to compile tests themselves; If desired, the program can also propose tests to improve learning and select tasks from areas that the students mastered below average.The exercise forms also come with animations - and thus position the Cornelsen titles as consistent learning programs without frills. Graphics and diagrams are used in many places, the navigation is intuitive and informative evaluation tools clearly display the learning successes. The learners have the option of putting together tests themselves; If desired, the program can also propose tests to improve learning and select tasks from areas that the students mastered below average.If desired, the program can also propose tests to improve learning and select tasks from areas that the students mastered below average.If desired, the program can also propose tests to improve learning and select tasks from areas that the students mastered below average.
Features:
Optimally matched to the school curriculum for grammar schools and middle school types
1,500 exercises in 35 varied exercise formats
Three different test modes: own and random test compilation as well as test to improve learning
Evaluation of personal learning progress
Explanation and training of the rules such as converting sizes, divisibility, brackets and much more
Training in the basic arithmetic operations for numbers and fractions
Mental arithmetic trainer for beginners and advanced users
Standard procedures in school notation for written arithmetic
Extras: formula collections, world time and pocket calculator, three-stage step calculator, conversion tool for lengths and areas, weights, currencies, etc.
Numerous customizing elements for individual design of the surface. Grade 6 algebra and arithmetic