You might still be able to put a chicken in your pocket. But have you ever managed to take cows and pigs along with you? No? Then you can from today. Because the successful PC game "The Farm" is finally available for Nintendo DS! And with that, you can take an entire farm with you wherever you go. Immerse yourself in life on the farm with all its facets and take care of your animals and cultivate your own land. The farming simulation "The Farm" for the DS offers a change from the usual jump-and-run games and challenges your brain cells: show everyone what you've got as a successful farmer!

Has everything a farmer's heart desires: The Farm ShopIt's all in the mix!
Do you enjoy building things and letting your own imagination run wild? Do you keep track of your affairs and are you good at organizing? And you enjoy working with animals and are not afraid of heavy machinery? Then "The Farm" is just the right DS game for you.The Farm: Not just for early risers
Prove yourself as a farmer and expand your land cleverly. Care for your animals with love and think strategically about how you can advance your business. It helps that you can afford new equipment and workers for each completed mission. After all, getting more animals and growing different plants is your goal - and that can only be achieved by getting better and better equipment.

A farm to feel good in your pocket

Be diligent and cultivate your fieldsTackle the field
So be a diligent farmer and till your fields and harvest your crops while you don't let your cows, pigs and other animals starve or die of thirst! You have to take care of the animals on the farm, cultivate beds and fields and sell the products you get in the city for a profit. Get in the Trekker and fly! Only you decide which path you will take. "The farm" for the DS is a varied game fun that will not let you go due to its variety of tasks and challenging missions...Features:

Tutorial mode to introduce the basics of the game
Playable mini-games for the most important activities (irrigation, fertilizing, harvesting)
An exciting, extensive career mode
Four varied and detailed scenarios: farm, city, inn and field
You can switch between employees at any time, all of whom are playable
Flora and fauna develop depending on soil and animal care
Numerous animals and plants

See what you can afford by completing missions