Drawn to Life Collection is a compilation game including Drawn to Life and Drawn to Life: The Next Chapter.

Drawn to Life is a 2D game where the player must draw their own character, weapons and accessories, platforms, and objects. 

The main "race" of creatures inhabiting the universe of Drawn to Life are anthropomorphic fox-like beings known as the "Raposa" ("Raposa" means "fox" in Portuguese). They were drawn by the Creator, who also drew their world and everything upon it. But the Creator abandoned the Raposa long ago.

The story begins with a Raposa named Mari crying out to the player, the Creator, to help save the village she lives in. Along the way, you meet her best friend, Jowee, and her father, the Mayor. These characters are the last remaining villagers. You design a hero for them, and then run into Wilfre, a corrupted Raposa that dabbled in creation, and spawned a legion of evil shadow-like creatures. 
 
Will you be able to save the Raposa race and their village, or will the shadow creatures take over the whole village?

Drawn to Life: The Next Chapter follows the same concept as the first game, taking place after an unkown amount of time following the first game.

The game begins with a surreal sequence, wherein an unknown party asks the player “What do you remember about that day?” The player is given several dialogue choices that build a cohesive description of "that day", though at this time, the player is not aware of the event's importance (or even occurrence). Before the game properly begins, the player is asked to draw an image depicting this mysterious scene, introducing them to the game's core "draw" functionality.

Following this is an animation sequence wherein one of the characters from the previous game, Heather, recovers from a nightmare. She is shown to possess a red-colored jewel pendant. In the same sequence, Heather is abducted by a darkness which emanated from a scepter she discovered in a beached treasure chest in the middle of the night. The next morning, when the other characters realize she's missing, a search for her is dramatically cut short by Wilfre, who causes the majority of the Raposa villagers to vanish, reveals himself as Heather's captor, and ultimately drains the Village of color. The remaining characters flee to the back of a massive turtle delivered, upon request, by the Creator.

Their numbers sorely reduced and their home ruined, the game follows the Raposa's struggle to reunite with their fellows and, with the aid of the Creator's Hero of Creation, defeat Wilfre before he can realize his as-yet unknown goals. The remaining members of the Village travel to Watersong, Lavasteam, the Galactic Jungle, and Wilfre's Wasteland, a combination of all three villages.