Element Girls is a Lifestyle Application for teenage girls. It includes an organizer, as well as fun and tips for all circumstances. The application also offers the creation of an animated 3D avatar which can be styled by using a variety of clothing and accessories. Additionally, the avatar's face can be painted and she helps with words and deeds at anytime. Further features include a personal diary, a class schedule, a journal, and a buddy list, as well as creative tips and exciting psycho-tests.

There are 5 games available within Element Girls.

The first one is a dancing game where players can choose from a variety of music soundtracks and let their 3D avatar dance. To do so, the player has to follow a set of moving shapes with the stylus. Those shapes move from the top to the bottom of the screen and resemble the rhythm of the soundtrack (as far as possible similar to e.g. Guitar Hero, but without the perspective).

The second game can be described easily, it is a classical "Four in a row" game.

The third game consists of a rotatable 3D cube. The surface of this cube is divided into grid sections and some of those grid sections are coloured. There are always two grid sections coloured with one and the same colour. Goal of the game is to connect every colour pair by painting adjacent grid sections in order to create a "path" which connects the pair of coloured grid sections. The challenge here is to connect all colour pairs and the difficulty level raises with progress (e.g. more different colours and a higher grid resolution).

The goal of the fourth game is to make up a face. The game provides the player with a pre-generated make over and their goal is to reproduce it on a blank face. The player has a variety of "tools" to accomplish their goal, e.g. mascara, rouge, contact lenses, etc.

The fifth and last game within Element Girls is some sort of designer studio where the player can create their own T-shirt designs by placing a variety of shapes and using a variety of colours. After creation, these custom shirts can be applied to the custom 3D avatar.

Another central feature of the application is the association to one of the four elements (fire, earth, air or water) due to a poll. Licensed title based on the lifestyle label created by the German TV station SuperRTL. Game titles and licenses for countries outside Germany are different