If you simply can’t cram enough football into your life, you’ll be glad to know you can now carry over 30 leagues, 500 clubs and 15,000 players with you wherever you go courtesy of FIFA 11 for Nintendo DS.

Returning for an 11th campaign, the FIFA soccer series makes a comeback on Nintendo DS with a host of improvements to make the portable soccer experience more authentic than ever. Updated graphics ensure star players are instantly recognisable on the pitch, while gameplay changes introduce the trademark moves of the world’s top stars into the mix. Expect to play crisp, creative passes with Kaka or leave defences dumbfounded with Andres Iniesta under your control. No matter who you’re playing with, a new set of skill moves empower you to leave your own mark on any match with an extensive offering of new tricks and flicks.

For the definitive experience of the beautiful game, the Ultimate 11 mode invites you to assemble the greatest team on the globe then lead them into action against friends or computer-controlled opposition. As you play, your achievements will be rewarded with bronze, silver and gold Ultimate 11 cards that empower you to add new talent to your team and concoct advanced strategies. And if you end up with a player you no longer want on your books, you can always trade them with a friend who also has FIFA 11.

For the first time, you can also put yourself in the game using the Nintendo DSi Camera function. Just take a snapshot of yourself then watch as you become part of the action on the pitch! Perhaps your self-created player will become the ultimate free kick specialist – a trait made all the more enjoyable by the addition of the Set-Piece Creator. Use the Touch Screen to plan and save up to four customised free kick and corner kick strategies, then select one of them at a pivotal point in the game. Will your work on the training ground prove to be decisive at the most important moment of the season?

As every football fan knows, heart and hard work are essential ingredients in a winning formula, but without the right tactics the goals are bound to dry up. FIFA 11 incorporates managerial tips that help you to plan for every game and tweak tactics if necessary. Expect to receive scouting reports before each match and coaching tips at half time pointing out the strengths and weaknesses of your opposition. If you’re willing to learn, you’re going to be harder to beat!

Capping off the festival of football on offer in FIFA 11 is the option of facing fellow players either online via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection or locally through DS Wireless Play. Will your mastery of skill moves, assembled squad of stars, training ground tactics and managerial savvy propel you to global glory? That’s the goal!

Cram a whole world of football in your pocket and experience the highs, lows and never-ending drama of the beautiful game on the move in FIFA 11 for Nintendo DS.