The "HMH vocabulary trainer - French" is equally suitable for beginners and advanced foreign language enthusiasts. It offers thematic vocabulary training for levels A1, A2, B1 and B2 of the European Framework of Reference for Languages. The vocabulary trainer contains more than 4,000 words and over 4,000 context sentences, which are clearly arranged in categories suitable for everyday use and manageable learning packages. All vocabulary has been recorded by native speakers and can be called up at any time. In addition, the "HMH vocabulary trainer" contains numerous effective but also playful vocabulary and vocabulary exercises, dictation exercises in four levels of difficulty, a language laboratory and a well-assorted dictionary with 15,000 keywords and more than 250,000 inflected word forms. Another special feature is the language and country quiz with 600 questions on country-specific topics such as art, culture, geography and lifestyle. The vocabulary trainer is the ideal companion for anyone who wants to learn French as a foreign language and/or want to brush up on their French. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED rating: "Vocabulary trainers are now a well-established genre on the Nintendo DS and it should actually be difficult for any newcomer to establish themselves in the highly competitive market. But a simple, serious presentation, a thematic vocabulary training based on the European reference level and a concept based on the 'Travel Coach Europe', which has also been available for the Nintendo DS since the summer, make 'HMH Vocabulary Trainer English' the best virtual vocabulary trainer currently available grab." (nintendo-online.de via "HMH Vocabulary Trainer – English")
Features:

Thematic vocabulary training for beginners and advanced learners
Vocabulary training for levels A1, A2, B1 and B2 with more than 4,000 English words (spoken by native speakers)
Over 4,000 French context sentences
Effective vocabulary exercises such as cloze text, listening comprehension or vocabulary cards
Varied vocabulary games such as mix letters, sliding puzzles and color matching
Vocabulary writing exercises in 4 levels of difficulty (A1, A2, B1, B2) Context dictations in 4 levels of difficulty (A1, A2, B1, B2)
Language laboratory with recording and playback function for your own voice recordings
Extra! Language and country quiz with different levels of difficulty
Extra! Dictionary (D-F and F-D) with 15,000 keywords and approx. 250,000 inflected word forms Modern and easy-to-use interface Word input via the NDS touch pen or virtual keyboard
Voice recording and voice playback function Vocabulary and contextual sentences spoken by native speakers For beginners and advanced learners