CAN YOU TRAIN INTELLIGENCE? Today we know that the nerve cords in the brain can be networked again and again through targeted stimulation and training. This is called "brain plasticity". Lifelong learning is also possible through this process. Since these training opportunities are even more pronounced in children than in adults, it makes particular sense here to systematically train mental performance as a prerequisite for successful learning. WHAT DOES THE CHILD PRACTICE WITH "IKOU"? The intelligence trainer trains the most important areas of general mental performance, which support and promote successful learning at primary school age. "IKOU - Intelligence trainer for kids" is based on an IQ test that is widespread in Germany, the HAWIK-IV (Hamburg-Wechsler intelligence test for children), which determines the academic performance of students in the 6 to 16 age group. With the intelligence trainer, the children train the basic skills that u. also be tested in the intelligence test: differentiated perception, logical thinking, working memory (short-term memory) and processing speed (rapid comprehension). For this purpose, the children in the program deal with ten different educational games.

THE STORY ABOUT THE INTELLIGENCE TRAINING: In addition to the squid called 'Grips', the IKOU kids also live on Gripsinsel. These have their headquarters at the top of a lighthouse that has 30 doors. In order for the player to get there, he must unlock all the doors. Once the "grip level" at the upper end of the lighthouse has been reached, he becomes a member of the IKOU kids and can have a real club button sent to him by post. Features:

Goal: Children can train their IQ in a playful way and without pressure
Scientifically based exercises, 10 forms of exercise with increasing difficulty
Intelligent Autoleveling: The level of difficulty automatically and imperceptibly adapts to the level of the player
All exercises were developed by psychologists especially for children and are based on classic intelligence tests
Child-friendly design and setting
All exercises offer a strategy help button and a progress bar
Multiplayer level for 2 kids on one console
After half an hour of play, the system prompts the children to take a break
Recommended by family & Co.
From 6 years