Increase your own performance in a playful way? Tivoli makes it possible! The basic prerequisite for successful learning is the ability to concentrate. More than a third of elementary school students have problems concentrating, some of which are considerable. »Learning success primary school concentration - the attention trainer« for Nintendo DS specifically trains the child's ability to concentrate. With this title, Tivola expands the award-winning series of educational games with another edutainment hit that specifically avoids stressful situations and pressure to perform. Features:

First concentration trainer in the award-winning Nintendo DS edutainment series
Designed under the supervision of the Society for Brain Training e.V. Hamburg
Daily training (5 to 10 minutes) guarantees full concentration
Real long-term fun with increasing difficulty
Narrator supports reading-impaired students
More than 1 million children are already practicing successfully with the "Learning Success" series

Playfully promote concentration

Which animals go well together?Increase concentration - anywhere and anytime
With »Learning Success Primary School Concentration - The Attention Trainer« primary school children can train their concentration in a variety of tasks - this noticeably improves attention and helps to absorb new learning content around school more easily. The game is colorful and attractively designed. Tasks are formulated clearly and simply. Difficulty levels that can be set at different levels enable the child to train individually. It plays at its own pace, so there is no pressure of time or performance.

The tasks are easy to solve at first, but gradually become more difficult over time. At the beginning there are ten different task types available, with good performance unlocking more exercises. Of course, Freddy, the popular learning vampire from the »Learning Success Primary School« series, shouldn't be missing. He guides you through the tasks and always has a helpful hint ready. In order to achieve a good ability to concentrate in everyday life, the children receive useful tips for a clear head. These tips relate, for example, to the topics of sleep, nutrition and exercise. tasks of all kinds
The player either has the opportunity to master individual tasks without time and performance pressure, or to test his ability to concentrate in a 3-minute training session. In doing so, he encounters a wide variety of exercise forms, such as »ear sharpeners«: Here the player sees a beautiful picture with different animals. Then a typical noise of the respective animal sounds and you have to tap the right animal on the picture with the stylus. With »Troubleshooting«, on the other hand, you have two images in front of you that are inevitably the same, with a few errors having crept into the copy. Can the child find all the mistakes in the copied picture?

Rewards for good performance
Thanks to the clear statistics, the player can track his progress in training at any time and is thus motivated to get even better. If you solve many tasks correctly, you will also get beautiful sticker motifs that you can stick in the virtual sticker book. This ensures a lot of collecting fun and makes »Learning Success Elementary School Concentration - The Attention Trainer« an all-round successful edutainment game. The concentration trainer is recommended for use before homework. 5 to 10 minutes of daily training is enough to be fully concentrated.

Where are the mistakes hidden?