Have a nice day!
Welcome to Lets Play Fashion Designer, feel free to browse around and try a few things on.

In Lets Play Fashion Designer, the player plays a young fashion mad student. Her dream is to become one of the best know fashion designers in the business, and one day manage her own prestigious boutique.

Spurred on by her friends' enthusiasm, she decides to open up a local boutique. Little does she know that one day her boutiques will become bigger and better, until she has her own prestigious stores and collaborations with some of the greatest names in fashion.

Custom design necklaces, rings, bracelets, earrings, hats, and more to your customer's specification

Take care not to make mistakes. An open link in a bracelet will cause it to break and you will have to start over, if its not made to the customers requirements or if your late in delivering the items they wont be Welcome to Lets Play Fashion Designer, feel free to browse around and try a few things on.

In Lets Play Fashion Designer, the player plays a young fashion mad student. Her dream is to become one of the best know fashion designers in the business, and one day manage her own prestigious boutique.
 

Spurred on by her friends' enthusiasm, she decides to open up a local boutique. Little does she know that one day her boutiques will become bigger and better, until she has her own prestigious stores and collaborations with some of the greatest names in fashion.

Custom design necklaces, rings, bracelets, earrings, hats, and more to your customer's specification. Take care not to make mistakes. An open link in a bracelet will cause it to break and you will have to start over, if its not made to the customers requirements or if your late in delivering the items they wont be happy!

Features
12 Scripted missions with 3 to 5 clients per mission creating orders for accessories.
Keep customers happy to unlock extra accessories.
15 creation workshops: necklaces, rings, bracelets, earrings, hats, etc
View the Gallery containing your own personal creations.