Slip into the role of a young medical graduate. Your dean of studies congratulates you on the excellent completion of your studies and you are already being offered your first job: Dr. Carmen Möller is a pediatrician but would like to retire soon. She is therefore looking for a successor who can take over her practice. She knows that you are not only extremely competent, but also very kind when dealing with babies and children. She therefore suggests that you start with her. Is not that great? You must be looking forward to helping your little patients! And don't worry: until you have settled in, Dr. Möller will of course support you and explain everything you need to know. It won't be long before you're an excellent pediatrician.
Find out what's wrong with your little patients...
Right from day one there are loads of little patients who need your help. You come into the practice and take a seat more or less patiently in the waiting room. You probably know this routine from your own visits to the doctor... But now it's your turn: Call the patients into the consulting room - preferably the most urgent cases first! Ask the children the appropriate questions to find out exactly what is missing. Babies can't speak yet, of course, but that's what their mum is there for... Then you can carefully and lovingly examine the little ones: listen to their lungs, take X-rays, do blood tests... You'll learn about the necessary medical equipment in the course of the Gradually develop the game... and then make sure that your patients are better off.
If you have made the correct diagnosis based on the examinations, you can continue with the treatment. You can treat many patients right away in your practice: remove ticks, apply plasters, apply cooling gels and even immobilize broken bones with a plaster cast... Others need a prescription sheet instead so that they know how to treat themselves: calf compresses for fever or but rather ointments against itching? You know your way around, put together the correct therapy instructions and sign the prescription with your name. If everything is right, your reputation will increase and your waiting room will fill up.