My Virtual Tutor was created to help children learn and master early reading via the incredibly popular Nintendo DS. Featuring individualized learning exercises, eight interactive books; four play modes and staged learning all aimed at keeping readers motivated and encouraging literacy. Backed by six years of research and development from the University of Colorado and using proprietary Foundations to Literacy software, My Virtual Tutor makes reading fun, affordable and portable. My Virtual Tutor: Reading greets your child first with a fun story in Read to Me mode, where the story is read by the tutor, accompanied by fun sounds and animations. Once the story is read, your child then accesses the story in Explore mode, which features comprehension questions which assess your child's understanding of what they read. After Explore mode, I Can Read mode is unlocked, where your child can read the story, play fun word-based minigames and even record and listen to him/herself reading aloud! These minigames offer more practice to expand reading comprehension and vocabulary. After playing I Can Read, your child can unleash their inner artist in paint mode while the story is read to them by the tutor. Once your child completes all four modes in the first book, an additional book is unlocked in their library to read and explore. These books were specially created at the University of Colorado to both engage readers and supply practice to gain fluent reading and comprehension. After your child has explored a story and tested their phonics skills, he or she is ready for quiz mode! Quiz mode tests the skills and concepts your child has learned up until that point in the game. By answering story comprehension questions, word matching, and coloring (just for fun!) your child can unlock 20 great prizes! [Prize Pictures], Parents can access Parent Mode at any time to track your child's progress and identify My Virtual Tutor.

8 Interactive Books
4 Different Play Modes
Staged Learning - Through self-correcting practice, the different codes of interacting with the exercises and stories will advance along with player
5 Reading Areas - Phonemic Awareness, Phonics, Comprehension
Proprietary software in My Virtual Tutor has been tested and proven effective with over 1200 students