Remindelight is an action role-playing video game developed by Japan Art Media and published by Taito for the Nintendo DS on September 28, 2006 in Japan. The player controls four characters with different abilities, navigating an overworld and fighting enemies using the D-pad, touchscreen and microphone. The story sees the four player characters seeking to restore the scattered pieces of the ripped-apart Book of Happiness, and bring happiness back to the world. Reviewers at Famitsu enjoyed the battle system, calling it innovative and saying that it made good use of the Nintendo DS hardware.

Remindelight is an action role-playing game in which the player chooses one of four characters to play as, who have different abilities, weapons and magic styles for the player to use. These include Surf Flood, who can use fire magic but is mostly focused on sword fighting; Kuurie Le Grasseld, who can use a bow, but is focused on water magic; Tolon, who uses a spear and wind magic; and Enju Fullhorn, who uses an axe and earth magic. The player navigates the overworld, and uses the touchscreen to break obstacles; they can also touch enemies' sprites to engage in battle, and move to the separate battle mode.

Battles are presented in a first-person perspective, with status and commands displayed on the Nintendo DS's top screen, and action taking place in real time on the touchscreen, with enemies moving around. The player mainly makes use of the D-pad and touchscreen to defeat enemies: when it is their turn, the player inputs a command type with the D-pad directions, including "right" for attacking and "left" for defending. When defending, the player can use the touchscreen to drag around an outline of a shield on the screen, to protect the player character from incoming enemy attacks, and when attacking, the player can draw a line on the screen across an enemy, mimicking a sword slash. When using magic spells, the player needs to draw an arcane symbol on the screen. For some spells, they also need to blow into the system's microphone.