Command the Lightning and the Storm as Thor!



Become Thor, God of Thunder, as he battles to save his home of Asgard. Wielding the iconic Mjolnir, Thor's legendary hammer, fight across multiple Norse worlds, controlling elemental storm powers to overcome hordes of deadly foes with devastating lightning bolts, earthshaking thunder and mighty blasts of wind that can sweep away throngs of enemies.

Battle through mythological realms to overcome colossal enemies lifted from the pages of the comics, including Ulik, Ymir, and Surtur, in a clash that extends to extraordinary planets filled with Frost Giants, Trolls and other mammoth opponents. Use powerful melee combos, lethal hammer throws, godlike elemental powers and a robust grappling system to take down enemies that range from large to gigantic: go toe-to-toe with a 25-foot tall, 12-ton Ice Troll for a truly heart-pumping experience!

Wield Thor's Hammer: Swing the Wii Remote as it controls the mighty movements of Thor's hammer, Mjolnir. Unleash devastating hammer slams, air combos attacks and crushing combo moves on the most dangerous of Asgard's foes. When striking enemies in succession, your combos become more damaging, giving you access to powerful attack variations and finishers. Build up your combo to meter to 50 or more hits and unleash supercharged hammer, lightning and hurricane area abilities!

Devastating storm powers: Use the Wii Remote to activate Thor's elemental attacks including a lightning storm which rains down lightning on all onscreen enemies. You can also create a cyclone that tosses enemies around and even charge the hammer to imbue Mjolnir with electrical energy, increasing your melee strength and damage caused by your hammer throws.

Wii exclusive flight levels: Take to the air and lay waste to oncoming enemies by calling down fierce lightning bolts or reflecting back your opponents' attacks.

Save Earth from the invasion: Journey to Earth and battle the Infernir who want to destroy this realm. This world is exclusive to the Wii!

Story told through comics: Watch the plot unfold in stylized motion comics!

Bonus content: Gain access to unlockable, behind-the-scenes artwork and alternate Thor costumes, as well as a special cartoon episode and much more!