Turn It Around is a compilation game of 24 mini-games, each with their own set of goals. To complete them, the player must use the stylus on the touch screen to turn a wheel, each will test the players speed, power and technique for each. The games are:
Arkanoid - The classic block and paddle game based on Breakout.
Elevator Action - Turn the wheel left or right to get people to their floor.
Birdman - Turn the wheel in order to make a bird fly..
Robo Crush - Turn the wheel to drop a compact crusher onto a robot.
Golf - Use the touch screen wheel to get the ball onto the green.
Money Grab - Catch money from the sky while avoiding falling bombs.
Fishing - Turn the wheel in order to reel in a big fish.
Skateboard - Try and perform big tricks for a high score.
Sushi - Turn a conveyor belt to serve customers.
Bub Bob - Shoot bubbles at monsters.
Ice Dessert - Make ten snow cones within an allotted time limit.
Pottery - Keep a bar within an allotted range to make three vases.
Takoyaki - Turn the wheel to fry food for customers.
Safe Cracker - A memory game of combinations.
Cameltry - A take on an arcade classic where you turn a map to get your ball to a certain point while avoiding obstacles.
Station Guide - Guide a drunk guy to a train station in an allotted time.
Packed Train - Maintain a balance without getting sick on a train.
Dragonfly Hunt - Turn the wheel to hypnotize dragonflies in order to catch them.
Swan Runner - A side scrolling game where you race and avoid obstacles.
Duck Boat - A racing game where you must be first to make it to the finish line.
Turning Puzzle - Turn the wheel to fit pieces of a puzzle together.
Hammer Throw - Try the throw a hammer the farthest.
Pitch Hitter - Try to hit a home run.
Umbrella Man - A side scroller where you use the wheel to float above obstacles while avoiding a giant.
There is a multiplayer mode as well, letting friends go at it head-to-head. In addition to this, there is a challenge mode and a free play mode where the player can play the games at their own pace.