Beats of Rage is a fan-made tribute game to Sega's Streets of Rage series. It supplants the original graphics and characters with resources taken from The King of Fighters series, albeit with tongue-in-cheek renames. Originally developed by Senile Team, the underlying engine powering Beats of Rage later went on to become the Open Beats of Rage (OpenBOR) game engine project.     Players take control of Max Bacon, 'Mandy Bluegard, or Kula Gem to defeat the forces of Mr. Y, who has taken over an unnamed city. Per the opening text:     It has been three months since his escape. But in this time Mr. Y has brought the city into turmoil. He has taken control of the city's government and corrupted its police force. No one is safe and thugs and villains rule the streets. But three young friends take a stand for justice. Their names are Kula Gem, Max Bacon, and Mandy Bluegard. No longer can they tolerate crime, violence and injustice. So they go out into the streets to deliver some... Beats of Rage. Beats of Rage supports two-player cooperation and a pseudo-3D field. In-game characters always face left or right but are capable of three-axis movement. Player characters are mechanically similar, sharing the same techniques and fighting abilities. Other than visual appearance, only slight differences in movement speed and starting hit points distinguish them. Each may execute a four-hit combination attack, a jump attack that knocks down enemies, and a second jump attack that only stuns. By walking into an opponent without attacking or getting hit, the player character will initiate a grapple, allowing execution of up to three hold attacks or a throw. Players are also equipped with two "special" attacks. The first has a considerably risky execution time, but knocks enemies down and boasts a longer range than most other techniques. The second is an all directional attack that is invincible while active and usable even when grabbed or hit, but consumes (and requires) a small portion of the player's hit points. Enemy characters attack the player with a variety of abilities - typically a lesser mix of the player's own array of techniques. Each stage is punctuated with a stronger "boss" enemy. When the boss is defeated, a stage is complete and the next stage begins.