40 Educational Games for the Commodore 64 is a collection of type in BASIC games for the Commodore 64. Addition and Subtraction : Answer randomized addition and subtraction questions. Anagram : Correctly spell a word from letters scattered on the screen. Area Estimation : Guess how many small boxes can fit within the displayed larger box. Areas : Work out the total area of a rectangle and triangle. Balance : Create a balancing weight using specific sizes. Bar Chart : Creates a bar chart based upon values inputted. Chemist : Work out the ratio of fluid required to make a solution stable. Compass : The player must describe which direction they are moving. Constellations : Type the name of a constellation based upon its shape. Counties : Identify 10 random counties on a map of the United Kingdom. Duck Shoot : Solve a multiplication question to shoot a duck. English/French : Correctly type the translation of the displayed word. Fizz/Buzz : The player must type Fizz for numbers divisible by 3 and Buzz for numbers divisible by 5. Guess the Number : Guess a number between 1 and 100. Each guess is told if the answer is higher or lower. Hangman : Spell out a word correctly in as few moves as possible. Highway Code : Multiple choice quiz on road safety. History Quiz : Multiple choice quiz based upon British History. Masterbrain : Correctly guess a sequence of 4 random colors with information on number correct. Missing Letter : Spot the missing letter in a word. Missing Numbers : Fill in the missing number in an addition or subtraction question. Morse Code : A program to teach the player morse code. Multiplication and Division : Answer 20 random multiplication or division questions. Noughts and Crosses : Answer math questions to gain spaces on the board. Number Series : Determine the next number to appear in a sequence. Odd Word Out : Find the word in a group different than the others. Organ : Play a song on a computer organ. Parachute : Safely land a man on the ground by calculating when to open the chute. Proverbs : Fix the jumbled up proverbs. Racer : Answer math questions to power a race car against the opponent. Science Quiz : Multiple choice science quiz. Simon : Memory game requiring memorizing a sequence. Speed Reading : Retype a sentence that is briefly displayed on the screen. Spelling Tests : A word is briefly displayed on the screen, and the player must spell it correctly. Submarine : Sink submarines on a grid using depth charges. Sum Difference : Try to correctly guess two numbers between 1 and 20 by knowing only their sum and difference. Towns : Guess the location of towns on a map of the United Kingdom. Village : Manage the crops of a small village to keep the people fed. Vowel Chase Chomp the vowels on a large word board. Word Mix : Correctly unscramble 2 words mixed together. Word Search : Find words in a large scrambled mass of letters.