Aerojam is a space traffic control simulation game. You play as the controller in a heavily travelled space-lane where craft transit. It is your task to direct the spacecraft so that they get refuelled and sent towards their destination with as few crashes as possible. Points are earned for prompt servicing of spacecraft once they leave the area. Points are lost for ships crashing with each other, or with space debris. And all of this takes place in real-time, with the craft moving forwards at intervals whether you are ready or not. The arena is a 12x6 grid of rectangles, each of which may be occupied by a single spacecraft. The refuelling station occupies the lower central portion of the screen, and has docking ports for six ships. The top two ports have a fast turn around time, while the other four may be a little less efficient. Spacecraft frequently appear from the left and right sides of the screen and will be distinguished by four different colours. Yellow and green craft are human operated, so earn more points for processing but also lose more points if they are lost in a collision. All craft arrive on the scene empty, but become filled after sufficient time at the refuelling dock. They must then be directed to an exit of the same colour as the spacecraft. Spacecraft are oriented either up, down, left or right. At intervals of half a minute or so (earlier if you press F3), all of the ships will move in their forwards direction one square. Ships on the edge of the screen facing outwards will either leave the area (if the exit is the same colour as the ship) or will stay in place. Any ships that end up on the same square will be involved in a collision resulting in the loss of one of the ships, and their associated points. Ships will also be lost if they wander into a square containing space debris. You can control the orientation of each ship at any time by selecting it (using the cursor keys) and pressing F1 to rotate it clockwise by 90 degrees. And if you are desperate, you can press F7 to clear the ship from the screen and make it someone else's problem. But this loses points and results in space debris forming in that square. There are three levels of difficulty which can be selected at the start of the game. This affects the number of arriving ships and the frequency and duration of space debris occupying squares. In any of the settings, no more ships appear after about 900 seconds. The game is completed when all vessels have been dispatched.