De Prijsvraag: Mr. Chip Nibble / Dr. J is a Dutch compilation on the occasion of the one-year anniversary of Microcomputer Club Nederland (MCN) that features the following two programs: Meneer Chip Nibbel - is a Dutch graphic text adventure that takes place in and around your CBM-64, where(in) you, the hero Chip Nibbel, are looking for an unloaded program line. This was caused by the criminal computer illiterate "Bugs Bijt". After that, you have to let the computer interpret this line. This is to get one half of a slogan. You write this half down, and then you can play "DRJ" to find the second half. The player inputs all actions via verb-noun commands with the keyboard to interact with the surroundings, such as "PLAATS FLOPPY". To navigate your way through the locations in the game you use the open lines 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. When you type 'K(IJK)' (LOOK) you get a description of your location. However, if you want to know what the visible items are in your location, possible exits and description of your location you need to type "KIJK GOED". 'R(ICHTING)' (DIRECTION) will give you information about possible exits. 'H(ELP)' is to get hints and 'HELP LOKATIE' (HELP LOCATION) explains the location in the CBM-64 where you are now, such as the I/O Port. If you want to know what you have in your possession you need to type 'B(EZIT)' (POSSESSION). With 'KIJK' (LOOK) + noun you can look at an object that is in your possession. DRJ - In this action game you, DRJ, are looking for the second part (the first part of the slogan must be obtained in 'Meneer Chip Nibbel') of the solution of an MCN contest "De Prijsvraag" in a maze. However, in order to play 'DRJ' you will have an access code which can only be obtained by playing 'Meneer Chip Nibbel'. By following the arrows you will find the letters that make up the second part of the slogan. Many creatures move around the maze and these have to be avoided or destroyed because if you touch one then you lose part of your 'Zuurstof' (Oxygen) and 'Brandstof' (Fuel) The 'Zuurstof' (Oxygen), 'Brandstof' (Fuel) for the flamethrower and the 'Supa' Bommen' (Supa'Bombs) ​​ can be filled in some places in the maze.