Gortek and the Microchips is an edutainment software package designed to teach children about BASIC programming, while having fun at the same time. Designed by three English schoolteachers, the package consists of two cassettes consisting of three games each. The games revolve around two characters - The Zitrons and the Microchips - and are as follows: Annihilation - The Zitrons are passing by the planet Syntax in their ships, duplicating passwords in an attempt to land. They are having trouble with spelling, however, and it is up to you to zap any incorrect words that pass by. Occasionally flying by will be a word spelled correctly. Zapping these will end the game. Boxes - A sorting area consists of sixteen boxes. These contain letters, numbers, and dollar signs. You must make your way to the end box, but can only move to specific spots according to a piece of information that will only be displayed for five seconds. Letters can only go in the boxes containing dollar signs, but not numbers. You can move up or down, but not diagonally. Flog - A golf game with no graphics, the computer will give you two sets of numbers - club number and hitting strength - and you need to multiply two of these together. You are given the opportunity to tell the computer if you want to move the ball forwards or backwards. There may be times when you need to go past the hole before sinking the ball. Place Value - A game of chance and skill, this game pits you against another Microchip which control their respective lines. You are given a random number by the computer, in which you place in any of your five squares. Your opponent does the same. The one whose line totals the highest number wins. Splat - Gortek has constructed a security system designed to splat Zitrons if they happen to appear underground, and left you in charge of it. Move the Microchip to the same square the Zitron is in to kill him. Zitrack - A letter will fall down from the sky, and your job is to press a letter on the keyboard corresponding to the letter shown on the screen before it crashes to the surface. Press the right letter ten times in a row, and you win the game. Three difficulty settings determine the speed in which the letters fall. The package also includes a Training Manual, in which children are encouraged to read between games. This manual teaches them about things that are essential to BASIC programming such as correct syntax, variables, and keyboard layout. The two cassettes also allow you to view your status report, have a conversation with the computer, display some computer art, and participate in a micro-quiz.