Hollanditis is a Dutch graphic text adventure about the controversial decision to deploy nuclear missiles in the Netherlands. The player takes the role of private detective Heinrich Glühwein from Basel, who has to investigate the worldwide stationing of 24 nuclear missiles and either prevent or promote them. To this end, Heinrich is sent all over the world, from Moscow to London, Rotterdam to New York, in search of hidden data. This data can speed up or prevent the final deployment of 48 cruise missiles in the Netherlands. He has 1,000 hours before the nuclear missiles are deployed and a budget of 25,000 Guilders for expenses. The player inputs all actions via verb-noun commands with the keyboard to interact with the surroundings, such as "PAK FOTO". Moving between the locations can only be done by taxi or plane. Type 'K(IJK)' (LOOK) to get a full description of the current location. "O(BJECT)" indicates which objects can be found at the current location. Type 'A(LLES)' and it will not only give the description of the location, but also the items that can be found at the current location. Heinrich Glühwein inventory can be accessed with by typing 'B(EZIT)' or 'I(NVENTARIS)', and it currently shows what object he is holding. With 'KIJK' + noun it is possible to look at an object currently in his possession. When stuck type 'H(ELP)' to get a hint. There is also a bonus program on the tape: Radeloos : The aim of this game is to obtain 48 cruise missiles, which are scattered in a maze full of monsters. Heinrich can defend himself by shooting them. Keys can also be found in some places. Heinrich Glühwein can use these keys to open a door where there is a keyhole. This door leads to another part of the maze. There are also "exclamation marks" here and there. Like the game Endless, the last exclamation mark is where Heinrich can reboot if he should die. "Question marks" can give extra points or power, but they can also be taken away. On the radar the player can see where Heinrich is at that moment.