As a knight, paladin, barbarian or sorceress, amass an army of creatures to take on the local baddies and search for the Sceptre of Order.  A turn-based game with a time limit that decreases depending on the skill level you play at. Depending on your allegiance, you will initially start with a different set of creatures, though the king will not mind whether you're his knight or a barbarian. Game consists of four maps, each with more mean creatures to control and meaner opponents to fight, but conquering one of the more difficult maps early will let you find and buy stronger creatures that will help you conquer prior maps easily. You can see all the enemies on the map and can literally clear them all out, though random monsters can appear in your castles if you leave them unprotected after you conquered them. With each conquered castle (assuming the castle is occupied by the enemy you are currently after), you will get a level up. After two level ups, you will get promoted by the king, which allows you to recruit cavalry units from the castle, then knights once you get four other extra levels. All the other creatures are found outside the king's castle and can be recruited no matter the level, although it determines the quantity of creatures you can find for recruitment. You also have to manage your money carefully, as your army needs to be paid on a regular basis to not desert or turn against you. There are also two artifacts per map that will reveal the map where the King's Sceptre is lying. The moment you find the sceptre and bring it back to the king, the game will end regardless of how far you progressed. As for tougher enemies, like the final one having hundreds of dragons and demons, they can also be defeated, but not by the army you can muster in one go. When you're defeated, you respawn back at the king's castle and start with almost nothing but your money, but the enemy in the other castle won't get back their creatures lost in battle either (only the new ones that join their ranks every week).