Leerwereld is a Dutch educational game for children, and consists of two games: Hoofdrekenen - In this game you will learn mental arithmetic. You own a spaceship and find yourself in a universe in which, in addition to the usual stars and planets, there are also a number of numbers. The sum to be solved appears in the center of the screen. You must solve the sum by looking up the individual numbers in the universe with the spaceship. Once you've found a number, make sure it's right under your spaceship, then press the fire button. If it is correct, the number will appear on the screen in the next free space after the = sign. You can remove a wrong number with the DEL key. If the answer was wrong, the correct answer will appear and you lose a life. The type of sums can be set (addition, subtraction, multiplication and division or combinations thereof) in the main menu. With the HOME key you can determine the difficulty level and with the DEL key you can determine whether or not the "Vernietigers" show up. These are hostile, explosive-loaded starships that will explode your spaceship at the slightest touch. Taaloefeningen - In this game you practice the Dutch language exercises by solving the problem that appears on the left. While you are trying to solve it, some objects will fall down. The amount and speed depends on the level. As soon as one of the objects falls to the ground, it will cost you 5 penalty seconds. You can prevent this by using a truck (if you have chosen the "Vrachtwagenoptie" in the main menu) to collect the objects. This is worth 2 points per object captured. The type of language exercises can be set (Present simple), such as BADEN/BAADT, Degrees of comparison, such as BLIJKT/BLEEK, AU or OU, such as VERH..DING and EI OR IJ, such as VERM..DEN or combinations thereof) With the HOME key you determine the difficulty level and with the DEL key you determine whether or not you want to use the "Vrachtwagenoptie" to collect the objects. You can also set the time with the + key.