Look Sharp! is an educational program that consists of two games that have to be loaded separately, with each relying on good observation. In "Old MacDonald's Farm", there are three mini-games. Memory - A picture is displayed on screen, divided into four parts that need to be memorized. The game will cycle through images of four farm animals. When the correct part is displayed, you press the fire button to select it. A wrong selection will cause the game to display the picture again, but a right one will move on to the next memory section. The game ends when all five pictures are guessed correctly. Two difficulty levels are available, with the latter one having a time limit. Odd-One-Out - Three pictures are shown below Old MacDonald who is moving across the screen. Look at the pictures carefully to see which one is different and have him stop at the correct one. On level one, a turn continues until you guessed correctly. On level two, only one turn is allowed. The game ends after ten tuns. Snap - A one- or two-player game where the object is to complete Old Mac. Each player has separate areas, and two pictures are displayed between these. When the pictures match, press the fire button and a part of Old Mac is displayed in your area. When fire is pressed when pictures don't match, a part of Old Mac is filled in your opponent's area. The game continues until a player completes Old Mac. "S.O.R.T'. (Space Observer Recruitment Test) consists of three tests. In each test, two rockets labeled Positive and Negative appear on screen. Correct answers will push the Positive one up, while the Negative one will be pushed up if an incorrect one is given. Each test ends when one of the rockets have reached its maximum length. Failure to respond within a certain amount of time will count as an incorrect answer. Test 1: Visual Perception - two columns of three pictures are shown, and you are required to press a key when all the pictures match Test 2: Visual Discrimination - six pictures appear in a box, with one of them slightly different than the others. An arrow will move slowly under each picture, giving you time to select the odd one. Incorrect answers will cause the game to reveal the correct answer. Test 3: Visual Memory - you have a certain amount of time to memorize each picture in the large box before it disappears. While the game cycles each part one by one, you need to hit a key when the correct one is displayed.