Metal Dust is a shoot 'em up in which one or two players simultaneously can take on the mission choosing between five difficulty levels. Mankind is near its end, the world devastated. Commander Ray Harrison (aka Commander LaserRay) searches for the legendary New World that is said to exist in another galaxy or dimension. His ship, the Full Metal Megablaster Mk II, is one of kind, not only equipped with an extensive number of weapon systems and a heavy amount of firepower, but the unique ability to produce enough energy to cross the border between space and time. He has four areas to conquer. The action starts in the Asteroid Belt Alpha 3, headquarters of the Rogue Pirate Empire. It is followed by the Space Station Bassruti VI, the biggest artificial object in space, and later on, an alien planet, home of the deadly Species 8173. Crossing the Thalian Center of Temporal Research prepares for the ultimate goal as this quadrant offers perfect conditions for time and dimension jumps because of its subspace structure. Loads of enemies get in his way and he has to fight through waves of small and medium ones only to be confronted with two gigantic boss enemies per level - each with multiple attack behaviors. He has to deal with a gigantic scull, an alien creature with very sharp teeth and an aptitude of sparking electricity, a huge walker, a shattering fist, a giant octopus and other equally nasty opponents. The ship has a primary and a secondary weapon system. The basic primary weapon is a Plasma Rapid Fire Phaser that can be replaced by either Twin Phasers, a Cobalt Blaster or Radium Emitters, each of them with two possible upgrades. The secondary weapon system provides Guided Missiles, Reverse Fire and Quadro Laser to increase the firepower. All extras have to be collected and only one primary and one secondary weapon can be active at a time. Another bonus is the shield that protects the ship against enemy attacks for a short time. The strongest weapon, however, is the Full Metal Megablast, a powerful beam shot that has to be charged before it can be fired.