One day Paddington set out from number 32 Windsor Gardens as usual to do his morning shopping. And, as usual, he had a label round his neck with his name and address on it in case he got lost on the way. So starts the shopping adventure of Paddington that introduces sums of all kinds. Paddington's Shopping Mix-Up is an educational game that aims to practice simple addition, subtraction, multiplication and division sums to the age range of 4 to 6. The program consists of five programs: Grocer - This is a simple counting and adding program where you have to count apples and carrots as they go on the scales and in your basket. You can choose from 5 to 20. Which - In this program you will learn about addition on from 10. Paddington must first add up the number of items that is shown at the top of the screen in order to find out which basket was his. Use then the arrow keys to move Paddington to the correct basket that contains the same amount. (Example: 10 Apples, 8 Buns and 2 Pencils) The type of sums can be set to 10 + one number, 10 + 2 numbers (total - 20) and 10 + 2 numbers (any total) in the main menu. Doubles - Paddington has to race to the shop and you learn to count in the form of dice throwing. This program is in a form of a board game that can be played by one or two players. The dice counts double if you are on a blue square. Sums - In this program you learn adding (Add), subtracting (Take), multiplying (Sets) and dividing (Share). Pick first the type of sums that you want and then pick your own level between 1 (Easy) and 6 (Hard). The level changes to suit you as you go on. At the end you will play a game where you have to move Paddington to catch the apples as they fall. Then the computer tells you how many apples you have caught. Labels - Help Paddington to fill in his labels. You do that first each time. Paddington will do the rest. You must keep count of the labels for him. You can choose between 10 or 20 labels. Included with this game is an illustrated storybook with Paddington Bear, specially written by Michael and Karen Bond, that serves as a preamble to the 5 programs.