Schwert und Magie II: Folge 3+4 is, like its predecessor a German text adventure that incorporates elements of a fantasy single-player role-playing game in which the player embodies a hero (or heroine) who has to solve a specific task by choosing between given alternatives. Your character is assigned certain primary attributes that are randomly determined at the beginning, for which you have to take tests as you progresses. The primary attributes are assigned among four choices: Intelligenz (Intelligence) (In), Charme (Charm) (Ch), Stärke (Strength) (St) and Geschicklichkeit (Dexterity) (Ge). The attributes that have an effect in combat are: Vitalität (Vitality) (Vit), Tapferkeit (Bravery) (Ta), Angriff (Attack) (An) and Verteidigung (Defense) (Ve). Two episodes or chapters per disk were published together:* Folge Nr. 3: Das Piratenhaus - You arrive by ship in the city of Trahve, the bloom of commerce on the fringes of the most civilized kingdom along the coast. You say goodbye to the captain, who tells you to be back in time the next evening, because he has to set sail again when the tide starts to rise. You assure him you'll be in time. Then you leave the ship and go to the dark harbour district. Hopefully this trip is worth it too, you think. The rich merchant Abussin, whom you accompanied on an adventurous odyssey through the Nephta desert (see Folge 2: "Der unheimliche Temple"; Schwert und Magie Diskette I), has asked you to do him another service. He gave you some papers and promised you gold if you handed them to another merchant in Trahve and returned to Abussin with his reply. He left you some silver coins for possible expenses and also paid very generously for the boattrip (you didn't even have to row along on the way). The documents are his important commercial contracts, which he didn't want to entrust to the insecure postal service of the different kingdoms, especially since you can be many times faster. After a half-hour criss-cross walk along the waterfront, you realize you won't find the merchant's house that easily in the middle of the night. So you trudge on through the winding, polluted streets in search of the merchant's home. From time to time shady characters scurry past you. Then as you pass under a brightly lit window, suddenly a girl's heartbreaking scream reaches your ears. Folge Nr. 4: Die Burg des Magiers Whistling happily to yourself, you approach the gates of the city of Seghem. As you came near the province of Elluria on your journey home, you thought it would be nice to peek into the capital city of Seghem again and visit the pretty Princess Ijale. About a year ago you saved her father’s life, the wise king Kasimir, and exposed the evil court magician Thyron (see Folge Nr. 1, "Das Geheimnisvolle Kraut", Schwert und Magie Diskette 1). You look forward to seeing the princess again and talking to the king. But when you arrive at the city gate, a royal decree posted there catches your eye: "1,000 gold pieces reward for whoever succeeds in snatching my lovely daughter Ijale from the clutches of the despicable sorcerer Thyron. We are looking for brave fellows who will stop at nothing for this difficult task. More information from the castle guard. Signed His Highness, Kasimir of Elluria." You reach the castle gate. After you have said your name, the guards immediately let you in to see the king. He tells you that the wizard fled to the neighboring kingdom of Gormhold after being exposed and holds Ijale prisoner in a castle not far from the border. Since he cannot send an army, that would be considered an act of war, and he cannot afford war with Gormhold, he hires young private boys who cannot be linked to him to effect her liberation. Many have tried, but none have ever returned. Since there are fewer and fewer volunteers willing to take the risk, he asks if you, who has already saved them once, would like to try again...? "Agreed" you reply. And in the early morning, King Kasimir gives you a sword (10 points), scale armor (protection factor 4) and a flask with a healing potion. Then accompanied by mounted soldiers you arrive, under the cover of darkness, just before the border. The captain describes the rest of the way to you. You say goodbye and walk carefully through the dark forest. Suddenly you hear footsteps. A patrol! You lie down behind a bush. Not a second too soon, because two soldiers emerge from the darkness, their uniforms revealing them to be Gormholder. Like all rangers in this land, they wear leather armor and are armed with short swords. They don't seem to have noticed you. Like before the character can be saved and guided through several adventures until their death, while gaining valuable experience. There are also now correspondingly created character sets. It is possible to choose from six different fonts. In addition, the rooms are represented graphically.