Schwert und Magie I: Folge 1+2 is a German text adventure that incorporates elements of a fantasy single-player role-playing game in which the player embodies a 1st degree hero (or heroine) who has to solve a specific task by choosing between given alternatives. Your character is assigned certain primary attributes that are randomly determined at the beginning, for which you have to take tests as you progresses. The primary attributes are assigned among four choices: Intelligenz (Intelligence) (In), Charme (Charm) (Ch), Stärke (Strength) (St) and Geschicklichkeit (Dexterity) (Ge). The attributes that have an effect in combat are: Vitalität (Vitality) (Vit), Tapferkeit (Bravery) (Ta), Angriff (Attack) (An) and Verteidigung (Defense) (Ve). Two episodes or chapters per disk were published together: Folge Nr. 1: Das geheimnisvolle Kraut You wander, with both your wallet and stomach empty, aimlessly through the narrow streets of the city of Seghem in the province of Elluria which you reached this afternoon, asking here and there for something to do. A master craftsman, who informs you with feigned regret that he has no vacancy at the moment, says goodbye. However, he has heard that the court magician is looking for someone for a difficult task. So you decide to go up to the castle. There you meet a pretty young woman with long black hair. Her name is Ijale and she is the daughter of His Majesty King Kasimirs. She asks you to find a specific medicinal herb that is difficult to obtain. Otherwise her father might die. Then her fiancé, the court wizard Thyron, a tall man in his thirties, clad in a dark cloak embroidered with magical symbols tells you that there is only one remedy for this Purple Fever disease: a tea made from a rare medicinal plant called Sanarie (sanus = Latin healthy; author's note). Unfortunately, he doesn't have this herb in stock. The only place where it can still be found is in a large forest a day's journey from the castle. You're supposed to get one of those plants from there. After he warns you about a witch that lives in the forest, he also gives you a left-handed glove that prevents dirt from your hands to affect the healing power of the plant and an old textbook with the page that shows a Sanarie, describes its development and its use against Purple Fever and other diseases. The next morning you leave early. In the evening you can already see the forest where you decide to spend the night at the edge of the forest. Folge Nr. 2: Der unheimliche Tempel Bathed in sweat you ride through the glowing hot sands. The midday sun over the desert of Nephta knows no mercy. The caravan's heavily laden camels make slow progress. You curse again and again that you have taken on the task of being a companion. The rich merchant Abussin hired you four days ago as his escort for his journey. He and his daughter, as well as some servants, want to travel to the city of Mahala, a week's ride away. Your reputation as a hero drew his attention, so he approached you. Since your purse was almost empty, you agreed. The heat of the day has reached its peak when the first clouds appear in the sky. Onur, the old caravan leader, babbles excitedly into his gray beard about a sandstorm. Before you can do anything, the Nephtine Devil (Native name for a sandstorm) is upon you. Men and beasts are running heedlessly through the storm in search of shelter from the lashing sands... Finally the storm subsides and calm returns to the sandy plains. Some camels are no longer to be found. You are dismayed to discover that there are also those who transported the entire water supply. After taking all the empty water skins you can get, you can't carry any of your own heavy equipment, let alone any larger weapons. You search for life-saving water for the caravan lost in a sand storm. Then you stumble across a deserted, unknown temple where unspeakable things have happened. In one of the adventures there are simple line-based graphics that illustrates a couple of rooms. Also, each character can be saved and guided through several adventures until their death, while gaining valuable experience.