It is January, 7th 1228 in Beryland - Two years after you have successfully defeated Lord Marox, and the Ormus Cult, a new adventure is awaiting our hero. A far more challenging task lies ahead. After reading the Compendium you know of the black Book called Ulbore. The Book has finally revealed the terrible truth about Sullivan and the Brotherhood of the White Rose. It is now up to you to complete 9 tasks provided by God Servants in order to rescue the Kingdom from the Armageddon. You only have appr. 12 months to do so. When the year has passed and you could not manage to enter the Eternal Halls of Carion, the game is over. The Ormus Saga II: Guild of Death is a roleplaying game where the player moves around an overland 2D scrolling area. He can visit cities and other places of interest as well as temples, castles and villages. Unlike its predecessor, where the towns, cities, etc are just menus, where you can engage in conversation with a fixed number of menu NPCs, now they can entered as you are used in the Ultima series. They have various places to visit, among others shops offering weapons, armour and other items, to recruit troops and inns to stay to regain health or buying food. NPC's can hold valuable information that can help to succeed completing the 9 tasks to save the Kingdom. At the start of the game you can create your own character or simply start with the pre-made one. When you start the game you are next to the city of Remfield. The player controls the movements of the hero with the joystick controls. The FIRE BUTTON brings up a menu system in which all actions can be performed. (Attack, Board Ship, Cast Spell, Enter, Climb, View Map, Open Door, Unlock Door, Wear Ring, Exit Ship, Save Game, Look, Inventory, Time Date, Ready Item, Equipment, Send Troops, Light Torch, Attack City, Search, Talk, View Player and Yell/Pray) Another difference with the previous game is that the turn-based combat, except with the troop battles, is not any longer on a separate screen. To attack, select the "Attack" option and then use the cursor to select which enemy to attack for experience and gold. Weapons differ in range and strength. The option "View Map" shows your current position only once. It can be found in chests or bought at a shop. Sometimes you will find locked magic doors. The only way to open them is by buying keys at a shop. Then you can use the "Unlock Door" option. "Time Date" will give you the exact date and time. Equipping or changing your armour and/or weapon can be done with the "Ready Item" option. To see what you have equipped, use the "Equipment" option. Like in the previous game, you can hire troops at the Recruiting Office and equip them with weapons. Throughout the game you will come across a village or city that is "++OCCUPIED++". The only way to use its services is to retake it with your troops. If you have enough troops, you can use the "Attack City" option. Occasionally, a friendly city, village or the King's Palace is being randomly attacked by enemy forces. To prevent it being captured you need to station your own troops in cities not occupied by the enemy, using the "Send Troops" option. If the King's Palace has been captured the game is over. Around the world are treasures you can find to finance more troops. Gold, silver, jewels, etc can be sold at the Pawn Shop. With the "Search" option you cannot only examine an adjacent field, but also find secret doors in castles, cities and dungeons. The "View Player" option provides information about the current constitution of the player and all of the troops' weapons. Use the "Yell/Pray" to call names or words or praying to the gods. It also supports Save/Load functions with the "Save Game" option.