Verkeersrally (Traffic Rally) is an educational game in which the player has to look for control stations in a busy and unknown metropolis to reach the finish through the knowledge of map reading and traffic rules. But the player must locate six transmitters within one hour. However, each transmitter contains a battery that only works for ten minutes. The first transmitter works from 9:50 to 10:00. The second from 10:00 to 101.0 etc. until at 10:50 the sixth transmitter battery is exhausted and the game is over. With these means the player can find the transmitters: Large blue signs with white letters on which "Signal" is displayed; These indicate an electronic arrow in the direction of the currently working transmitter. District map: when the player parks there and presses the fire button, you get to see the part of the city where you are at that moment. A green rectangle represents the entire city; a small gray rectangle indicates in which part you are now. A small white dot is the first transmitter. Sonar stations: if the player parks here, you will see the part of the town where you are at that moment and hear a whistle and see white dots on the screen. The faster they go, the closer you are to the transmitter. The buildings with the inscription "Puzzle": if the player parks here and presses the fire button, you will see a part of the city where the transmitter is located. By means of the map that you find in the manual, you can find out which part of the city that is. From the third channel (from 10:20 onward) only pieces of the plan are shown. During the search for the transmitters, the game is interrupted regularly to ask the player about certain traffic situations, such as identifying which of the road users has priority. The player also has to refuel regularly at one of the filling stations. Because if the player is without petrol, there will be an automatic refuel and the player will pay penalty seconds. So the player must keep an eye on the fuel gauge at the bottom of the screen. If the player sees a black rectangle appear on the pavement, the player must stop and press the fire button; one of the transmitters has been found.