Known in Japan as Dragon Ball: Shenlong no Nazo (  Doragon Bru: Shenron no Nazo?, Riddle of Shenlong), in France as Dragon Ball: Le Secret du Dragon and in Spain only as Dragon Ball, the game was developed by Tose and released by Bandai in 1986. The game stars Goku and very roughly follows the first two volumes of the Dragon Ball manga, culminating in the first wish from Shenlong. The game consists of 2D overhead areas where Goku must fight many enemies and side scrolling sequences for the boss fights. It was added as bonus feature in the Japanese release of Dragon Ball: Origins 2 in 2010.

    In the USA the game is known as Dragon Power. Although the Japanese, French and Spanish editions of the game used the familiar art and music from the Dragon Ball anime, the US version is stated to be based on Journey to the West with no mention of Dragon Ball.[2] Goku was changed to more closely resemble an Americanized Kung Fu stereotype, being pictured on the box with a white gi and blue headband. Master Roshi has been similarly changed to look more like a traditional martial arts master. Bulma is called "Nora", Yamcha is called "Lancer", Oolong is called "Pudgy", Pilaf is called "King Minos", the Kamehameha is the "Wind Wave", and the Dragon Balls are referred to as "Crystalballs". Also, the game has been shortened; all levels that correspond with the Kung-Fu Tournament halfway through the game have been removed. Furthermore, all perverted references have been censored out; for instance, the "girl's panties" power-up (which temporarily makes Goku run fast) now resembles a triangle-cut sandwich.

    The European version, released in France in 1988 (and in Spain in 1992), retains the Dragon Ball license. In France, it was the first Nintendo game translated into French. However this translation includes a lot of misspellings. In Spain, the game was also released in French language, although the Spanish version specifically featured box description and instruction manual translations in Spanish language.