Innocent Life: A Futuristic Harvest Moon is a new generation of the Harvest Moon series. Unlike all previous games the only thing the player is able to choose when starting the game is the name of the main character. The game takes place in the year of 2022 on a small island located in the southern hemisphere. The player is not cast as human teenager as in previous games, but as a brand new robot - created by Dr. Hopes from in Volcano Town. This time it is not possible to marry for instance. The main goal is to save the island from destruction by angry spirits of nature. To do so, the robot will learn how to develop more human characteristics. Much has changed in terms of how the game plays out compared to other entries in the series. Many of these changes are improvements as well as fixes to over-exploited tricks in the previous titles. One of the major improvements to game is the ability to walk through crops that have been planted. Seeds are now planted in 1x1 squares as opposed to the old 9x9 method of planting. Seeds are now also purchased in individual numbers as opposed to bags of 9. Crops and flowers are no longer destroyed if players accidentally drop them on the ground for some time. Things grown in the wild cannot longer be exploited. Instead a special “Scale Pack” is required to harvest them and only 3kg can be carried at all times. Crops grown in the wild are no longer available every single day of the season. Like in real life they now have specific “regrowth” periods as well as specific schedules on which the fruits or other things are fully grown and able to be harvested. Time no longer stops when inside a farm, but it stops when other people's houses are entered. The entire field is no longer available right at the start of the game. It needs to be increased by unlocking the seals on it. Gems to unlock them come from the story quests and the exploration of caves. The time hierarchy has also been changed. Players can now choose to get up earlier than usual, but only if the character goes to sleep before 21:00 (11:00 PM).