The name of the game roughly means "the Taikō's success story". The characters are taken from the Momoyama period in Japan. In the previous Taikō Risshiden IV, a character was selected from the choices of a samurai, a ninja or a merchant. In Taikō Risshiden V, new roles include a blademaster, a pirate, a doctor, a tea master, and a blacksmith, counting eight roles in total. The player meets various historical figures of the era in the game.  The game follows the card system used in Taikō Risshiden IV, with new profession added. A number of playable warlords are expanded for each version as 800 for Windows and 860 for the PlayStation 2. Non-combat characters include foreign missionaries, monks, and wives of the military lords. There are four overseas bases where pirates and merchants can travel to: Naha (Ryukyu, now part of Japan), Busan (Korea), Ningbo (Ming China), and Luzon (in the Philippines). The military commander graphics were changed from the manga style of version III and IV to a graphic novel, or gekiga style, adopted from the format employed in a title named Nobunaga's Ambition. While each internal affairs and training sessions were settled in mini-games in Taikō Risshiden IV unless you change option in PlayStation 2 edition or later, in this version it is possible to opt out and skip those mini-games. However, when the player skips those mini-games, technical points will not be gained on ability score, and there are events that the player is challenged with the mini-games, even when opted to skip them. Like the previous PlayStation 2 version, players on Windows will gain new mode by the number of cards gained during the play. The function to edit warlord data is employed when all docks are collected, to replace the Power Up Kit used in other Koei titles. When creating a special commander or warrior, the player designs the appearance for instance choose and arrange face features, props and clothing, not that to choose from among preset outlook. It is in this version that a female warlord can be chosen for the first time, as well as the player being able to register and maneuver up to 40 characters along with the main warlord at the same time.